# Mirage Weekly meeting

## Details 

Date: 16 Apr 2013
Location: Citrix

### Agenda

- Anil Madhavapeddy: overview of release goals
- Dave Scott: libvirt and other status
- Vincent Bernardoff: Mirari and testing
- Thomas Gazagnaire: Irminsule, the storage substrate for Mirage
- Amir Chaudhry: xen.org incubation status and next steps

### People

- Thomas G
- Vincent
- Jon Ludlam
- David Sheets
- Amir
- Prashanth


## Overview of release goals (Anil)

Aim of this meeting is to clarify release goals for 1.0

1. For Citrix, need subdomains for xen-store. Also for xen-stored. stub-domain system . Front-end and back-end drivers

2. Self-hosting website and DNS server. Already working well now.

3. Proof of concept of distributed system (ideally can be demo'd for OSCON). Basically some strawman distributed system and current thinking is something like OCamlot or Signpost.  This would be a nice "Hello world!" demo as it requires actors, a persistent job queue. For example, i.e spawning new VMs in response to load.

David Sheets, working on OCamlot, asks about the place for Mirage. For example as the dispatcher running as a Mirage kernel on "the cloud" and the workers would be running as ordinary VMs. This would demonstrate that the distributed system actually works.  Can discuss the details of this later (e.g what OS are the workers using).

Target for candidate release would be June, ready for July release (would tie in with OSCON).

## Libvrt (Dave)

Libvert allows to create VMs on virtual host (it's Hypervisor agnostic). OCaml bindings exist for this (via Richard Jones).  Can't use it to work with EC2 or others (have to use EC2 API thre) but could write something that sits between.  libvrt could work with KVM and other machines.  

Need to investigate mapping to cloud APIs. e.g Mirage app is the controller and the app that does worker stuff. 

No current fork API on xen. [AC: Missed the meaning of this]

Need to think about what an OS interface for Mirage should be.  

Initial cloud APIs to target are libvrt (will cover 90% of FOSS users) and EC2 (will allow ability to do interesting demos).  Need to make sure that libvrt works on Ubuntu and Debian.

Jon asks whether configuration is still a compile-time thing.  Can also do key exchange thing at compile time, which should be cool and avoids dynamic key exchange (though should talk to more security ppl first).  This is definitely what we want to do.

## Mirari (Vincent)


Mirari - split things into config stage (`mirari configure`), mirari run. Configure step is going well but missing bit is mirari `run` which does all the compilation bit.  

Need to think about the FRP model for configuring and keeping track of dependencies.  It would make an awesome demo but need to get it right.  Question asked if anyone has used FRP for anything serious.  Silence ensues (followed by some sniggering).

Q from Prashanth. Does mirari monitor hosts across domains?  Ans: No. It keeps track of local VMs and Mirari v2 will deal with tracking versions across hosts (persistent storage elsewhere - this leads to Irminsule, below).

Jon pointed out that it might be useful to have a goal application as it would help the design decisions and make things clearer.  Anil mentions there are two apps.  

1. Windsor, a dom-0 free system.  

2. For Open Mirage site, e.g automatically reconfiguring itself from individual to two VMs and a load balancer, and then more VMs and DNS balancing as load increases.  This is the concept of self-scaling.   How do we do this is the Libraries? Would love to demo a self-scaling webserver at some point.  The latency and precision we can bring would be awesome (EC2 takes ages to spawn and set up new VMs).  We have the control stacks but it's a matter of gluing them together.

Jon suggestions: Xen-server pool level would be cool as they're faster etc. AM: however details include DB slowdowns.

## Irminsule (Thomas)

Need a storage interface (persistence) and control interface in Mirage.  Branch-consistent.  Want to have a DB that grows and then we just have a garbage collection problem to deal with size. 

Goal is to have a cloud-friendly DB with 3 scenarios

1. VM storage - expose an NFS library and can expose fake git directory to VM. Not stuck at the block-level. 

2. For the RWO book, people making comments have lost stuff as Github has issues.  Can compile Irminsule down into JS and then comments can be made locally and then sync/merged upstream.  JL asked if you need the whole blob/tree in your browser to do this? AM says you need the graph but not the whole thing.  enabled since we're using pure OCaml

Targeting xen-store may be worth considering.  Should lead to original xen-store goal.

Prashanth: what if I want something from the subdirectory rather than root? TG: Git doesn't allow this but in his implementation it's possible.


3. Native mirage filestore system. needs to be lock free as they have to run all over the world.  Irminsule is good for this.  could use sqlite but ... no.


## Xenproject stuff (Amir)

Xen.org has become a Linux Foundation project (called Xen project) and there have been some high profile announcements so far which explicitly mention Mirage OS so we can expect more attention being paid to the work.  There will also be blog posts and news about Mirage being put up on Xen Project's site and openmirage.org.

Anil mentions that it's worth looking over the installation instructions and checking they work ok. They may need some refreshing. 


## AoB

Jon wanted get Mirage set up as a test VM for XAPI. It does a great job (starts and stops in no time), which is part of motivation to get start-suspend working properly.  Anil mentions that fsuzz-testing in general is a good thing.
