---
updated: 2013-04-16 16:00
author:
  name: Anil Madhavapeddy
  uri: http://anil.recoil.org
  email: anil@recoil.org
subject: 'Weekly Meeting: 2013-04-16'
permalink: weekly-2013-04-16
description: '16th April 2013: release, libvirt and Mirari'
---

### Agenda

* Anil Madhavapeddy: overview of release goals
* Dave Scott: libvirt and other status
* Vincent Bernardoff: Mirari and testing
* Thomas Gazagnaire: Irminsule, the storage substrate for Mirage
* Amir Chaudhry: xen.org incubation status and next steps

*Attendees:* Thomas Gazagnaire, Vincent Bernardoff, Jonathan Ludlam, David
Sheets, David Scott, Anil Madhavapeddy, Amir Chaudhry, Prashanth Mundkur

### Minutes

#### Overview of release goals (Anil)

Aim of this meeting is to clarify release goals for 1.0. We're aiming for the
OSCON 2013 talk in July, so release plan should have a stable output by June 
so that we can document and stabilise.  Three concrete applications:

* Need stub-domains for Xenstore and Xenconsoled.  Device drivers (mainly
netfront and blkfront) should compile on both Xen and Linux to let us
swap between front-ends and back-ends as either stub-domain or dom0.

* Self-hosting website and DNS server. Already working well now, but the
TCP stack could use some attention, as well as an SSL prototype.

* Proof of concept of distributed system (ideally can be demo'd for OSCON).
Some strawman distributed system to start with; current thinking is something
like OCamlot or Signpost.  This would be a nice "Hello world!" demo as it
requires actors, a persistent job queue. For example, i.e spawning new VMs in
response to load, as evidenced by self-scaling web-server.

David Sheets (working on OCamlot), asks about the place for Mirage in OCamllot.
For example would it be the dispatcher running as a Mirage kernel on "the
cloud" and the workers would be running as ordinary VMs? This would demonstrate
that the distributed system actually works. Anil: can discuss the details of
this later (e.g what OS are the workers using), but that's correct in
principle.  We need to split the `OS` module into a controller that is
responsible for resource provisioning, and the worker application itself.
Vincent is already working on this on the UNIX backend.

#### Libvirt and other cloud APIs (Dave)

Dave: Libvirt manages VMs on a physical host and is hypervisor-agnostic.  OCaml
bindings exist for this via Richard Jones at Red Hat, and Dave Scott has been
fixing up the Xen bindings.  We can't use it to work with EC2 or proprietary
clouds (have to use EC2 API directly there), but we could write something that
sits between if really motivated. libvirt could work with KVM and other
machines, which is a big plus when we have other hypervisor backends such as
KVM.

Anil: Need to investigate mapping to cloud APIs; e.g Mirage app splits into the
controller and the app that does worker as a separate VM (on Xen), or a
separate process (on UNIX), or even uses capability APIs such as Capsicum on
FreeBSD to separate the two.

No current fork API on Xen: that is, a VM cannot self-provision more
resources, hence the need for this controller/worker split.  This is a general
issue on the cloud, and there are several ad-hoc PV interfaces (e.g. balloon
driver).  We need to think about how the OS library interface for Mirage will
do in this space.

*Decision:* Initial cloud APIs to target are libvirt (will cover 90% of FOSS
users as it works with `xm`) and EC2 (interesting demos and for self-hosting
website).

Dave: Need to make sure that libvirt works on Ubuntu and Debian.

Jon: asks whether configuration is still a compile-time thing.  Can also do 
key exchange thing at compile time, which should be cool and avoids dynamic 
secret exchange.  Anil: yes, and closely tied into Mirari (see next).

#### Mirari (Vincent)

Mirari splits workflow into config stage (`mirari configure`) which installs
OPAM dependencies, the build phase which invokes obuild, and mirari run to
execute the result.  The configure and build phases work fine, but we're
missing mirari `run` to interface with libvirt and EC2.

Need to think about the FRP model for configuring and keeping track of
dependencies.  It would make an awesome demo (and useful in general!) to
reconfigure server variables and recompile/launch precisely what is needed.
Question asked if anyone has used FRP for anything serious.  Silence ensues.
Followed by some sniggering. Followed by serious looks.  Mort's name is mentioned.

Prashanth: Does Mirari monitor VMs across multiple hosts? 
Anil: Eventually yes, but not in 1.0. It keeps track of local VMs for now on
the same host and Mirari v2 will deal with tracking versions 
across hosts, or on EC2.  Just libvirt for now will get us a long way in
terms of usability.

Jon: we need to define some goal applications for Mirage 2.0 to make all these
design decisions clearer.  Anil agrees, and suggests:

1. Project Windsor, a dom0 free system that essentially turns xapi into a
communicating set of unikernels.

2. For Mirage website, e.g automatically reconfiguring itself from 
individual to two VMs and a load balancer, and then more VMs and DNS 
balancing as load increases.  This is the concept of self-scaling.   How do 
we do this in the libraries?  Anil would love to demo a self-scaling webserver at 
OSCON: Mort, Anil and Malte have played with this a couple of years ago, but its
not practical at the VM level without fast boots (which we have now) and careful
dependency tracking across resources and libraries.
The latency and precision we can bring is an order of magnitude better than the
current state-of-the-art, and (thanks to Dave's work on xenopsd), we have the control
stacks to glue them all together.

Jon: XenServer pool-level support for these makes sense since there is already
a cluster-wide API to deal with moving across hosts.
Anil: yes, but the XAPI distributed db is a potential significant slowdown.

#### Irminsule (Thomas)

We need a storage interface (persistence) and control interface in Mirage.  
Branch-consistency is the lowest level we can work at without embedding
any policy in the database.  Want to have a DB that grows immutably, and then we just have a 
garbage collection problem to deal with ("just").

Goal is to have a Mirage-friendly DB with 3 scenarios:

1. VM storage:  expose an NFS library and eventually PV blkfront that can
expose fake git directory to VM.  Not stuck at the block-level but real
filesystem-level packs.

2. Native Mirage filestore system. Needs to be lock-free as they have to run 
all over the public cloud.  Irminsule designed for this.  Could use Sqlite
with data constraints but... no. Desire a more rigorous, low-level DB and
build SQL on top as necessary.

3. For the RWO book, people making comments have lost stuff as Javascript
API requires people to be online to report issues.
We can compile Irminsule down into JS and then comments can be made 
locally and then sync/merged upstream.  

Jon: asked if you need the whole blob/tree in your browser to do the stuff
for RWO book?
Anil/Thomas: you need the graph but not the whole thing as we're not stuck to
only needing the git protocol. The low-level protocol actually supports lazy
graph traversal fine.  Anil: we can also rebase the trunk using a sliding
window scheme.

Jon: Targeting Xenstore may be worth considering as its a close fit to
Irminsule. Thomas points out that very close mappings between existing
transaction semantics and Xenstore (Thomas worked on both).  Anil: we can
also turn Xenstore into a cluster-wide persistent store like this, removing
a lot of XAPI complexity.

Prashanth: what if I want something from the subdirectory rather than root? 
Thomas: Git doesn't allow this but in his implementation its possible by
delving at a lower level. Sheets: Git patches have been proposed but
rejected that permit this in git for submodules.

#### Xenproject update (Amir)

Xen.org has become a Linux Foundation project (called Xen project) and there 
have been some high profile announcements so far which explicitly mention 
Mirage OS so we can expect more attention being paid to the work.  There 
will also be blog posts and news about Mirage being put up on Xen Project's 
site and openmirage.org.

Anil: we all need to be looking over the installation instructions and 
checking they work ok. They need refreshing and tweaking as even small
missing steps cause confusion.

#### Any other business

Jon wanted get Mirage set up as a test VM for XAPI. It does a great job
(starts and stops in no time), which is part of motivation to get start-
suspend working properly.  Anil: fuzz-testing in general is a 
good thing and we can use this in all the libraries.  Balraj created a
TCP loopback VM that uses two VIFs in single VM (see mirage-skeleton/tcp).

Plan for next week's call: Discuss the mirari FRP integration in more detail.
Invite Daniel Bunzli to advise.

