---
updated: 2014-11-26
author:
  name: Amir Chaudhry
  uri: http://amirchaudhry.com
  email: amirmc@gmail.com
subject: 'Weekly Meeting: 2014-11-26'
permalink: weekly-2014-11-26
description: '26th Nov 2014: Entropy, Config modularity, IPv6 stack and Pioneer projects'
---

### Agenda ###

- Configuration Modularity
- Entropy for Mirage/TLS
- Merging IPv6 and STACKV4
- Conduit lives!
- Pioneer projects
- Irmin update

Attendees: Amir Chaudhry (chair), Thomas Gazagnaire, Thomas Leonard,
Anil Madhavapeddy, Richard Mortier, Hannes Mehnert, Nicolas Ojeda Bar,
Dave Scott and Magnus Skjegstad


### Notes ###

#### Configuration Modularity ####

There's been a [discussion about configuration modularity][module-thread] on
the mailing list and ThomasG will be looking at this for the medium term. This
isn't particularly urgent but we do need to have an idea of what to do. As a
first step, ThomasG will discuss this with Mort when he's next in Cambridge,
with the aim of getting some thoughts written down for further discussion. 

[module-thread]: http://lists.xenproject.org/archives/html/mirageos-devel/2014-11/msg00094.html


#### Entropy for Mirage/TLS ####

Hannes [summarised the discussions][entropy-thread] on the email thread so far.
There are several scenarios depending on whether we have any control of dom0
or not. For the cases where we don't, we'll have to come up with another way
of getting entropy into the unikernel.  We could get entropy in via Xenstore
or by using vchan. These are of equivalent difficulty to implement and Dave
has been looking at them. Dave's currently tidying up Xenstore library so it's
easier to write and is adding unit tests too. Will also be looking at the ring
code too. Could use these libraries to make a Xen randomd. In general, there's
reluctance to use Xenstore as the solution since we're not comfortable putting
secret entropy through it — much better to use vchan. 

ThomasL did get TLS working on the cubieboard recently (as did Hannes at ICFP).

[entropy-thread]: http://lists.xenproject.org/archives/html/mirageos-devel/2014-11/msg00146.html

#### Merging IPv6 and STACKV4 ####

*See also the [notes from the last call][prev-ipv6].*

Anil has been merging some of [Nic's changes][ipv6-patch] into his trees.
There has been a fair amount of renaming but for the most part, it shouldn't
be that difficult to update other code that uses the stack — things may simply
need to be recompiled (and conduit makes parts of this easier).

Would really like to be able to test the stack from Mac OSX. Anil is adding
bridging support to tuntap (which is available in Yosemite). There's no
documentation to follow so it's taken some hacking but it is now attaching to
an interface and seems to work. Is wondering about building a Mirage fetcher
over IPv6.

In terms of next steps, we should be able to merge what Anil is doing now and
then deploy on the mirage-www site!  Mort reminded everyone that we would also
need to update Mirage skeleton to remove the STACK example and update any
others (and perhaps a few pages on the website too). 

[prev-ipv6]: `https://mirageos.org/weekly/weekly-2014-11-12#IPv6patchset`
[ipv6-patch]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage/pull/319

#### Conduit lives! ####

Conduit was released and Anil assures us that it's awesome. People have been
using it and are reporting issues that Anil is looking into. These seem to be
related to SSL and he'll deal with them.

#### Pioneer Projects ####

*See also the [notes from an earlier call][prev-junior].*

We previously discussed the idea of a list of possible jobs/projects for
newcomers to Mirage. Amir came up with a name for these (Pioneer Projects) and
Anil started putting together a list, which you can see on the
[mirage-www wiki page][pioneer]. If you've worked on an aspect of Mirage and
can recognise a project that could go on this list, please do add it. Don't
worry about defining difficulty levels as we can examine that after we have a
collection of things for people to browse through.

[prev-junior]: https://mirageos.org/weekly/weekly-2014-10-28#Miragetaskslistfornewcomers
[pioneer]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Pioneer-Projects

-- 

#### AoB ####

- **Irmin Update** - If anyone has feedback on the new API, ThomasG would
grateful to hear it. He's now thinking of encryption for Irmin so thoughts on
that are also welcome. Encrypting the backend is of interest and should be
easier with new API. It may be easier to evaluate the new API after trying to
build a few command line tools (e.g. logging).

- Using **Irmin instead of crunch** - Mort heard rumours that Irmin could be
ready to use instead of Crunch.  Mort's website is quite heavy as it contains
a lot of PDFs he needs to serve. Using Irmin may be possible but ThomasG wants
to get to a point where Irmin should just be able to clone a repo that
contains the assets. Irmin could even watch the repo and if there are new
events, then pull them in. There are a number of other things to complete
before we can get to this point though. Those things are (1) clibs support in
OPAM, (2) the git smart http protocol in `ocaml-git` and (3) TLS in
`mirage-cohttp`.

- Anil was going to **modify crunch** to get it to do git-clone if the
directory doesn't already exist. There weren't any objections to this.

- The next call is scheduled for **Wednesday, 10th December** - Please refer
to the [mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel

