---
updated: 2014-08-20
author:
  name: Amir Chaudhry
  uri: http://amirchaudhry.com
  email: amirmc@gmail.com
subject: 'Weekly Meeting: 2014-08-20'
permalink: weekly-2014-08-20
description: '20th Aug 2014: XenSummit feedback, Conduit patches and ARM profiling'
---

### Agenda ###

* XenSummit Talk
* Conduit merge
* Irmin status update
* Profiling ARM
* Xen-ARM vs Xen-x86


Attendees: Amir Chaudhry (chair), Thomas Gazagnaire, Thomas Leonard,
Jon Ludlam, Anil Madhavapeddy, Richard Mortier and Dave Scott.


### Notes ###

#### XenSummit Talk ####

Anil is in Chicago at the annual [Xen Developer Summit][xen-summit] speaking
about Mirage 2.0 and branch consistency for Xen Stub Domains ([abstract][]).
Some feedback from the talk was emailed to the list and is summarised here
(see the [thread for discussion][thread]).

- Git workflow very popular. Lots of people twigged onto the maintainability
benefits of `git bisect` automation in particular.

- Questions about why Xenstore transactions are still necessary in the modern
world.  Can replace with consensus protocols instead?  Maybe time for an ABI
bump to deprecate the ancient xenstore protocol.

- Space usage is a concern — building an RRD-style constant size library to
maintain progressive history would be a big win.

- *Excellent* talk from Felipe Huici from NEC about building much denser  VM
workloads, and he observed that Xenstored/xenconsoled are a big bottleneck  at
~10000 VMs ([slides][]).  Some sub notes:
   - We could write a mirage xenconsoled to log to irmin and drain guest
   console rings much faster.
   - A distributed xenstored+irmin would allow significantly more scalability
   than attempting to build a serially fast version.
   - Felipe has the beginning of a simple c++ xenstored that doesn't implement
   the full semantics, but is enough for MiniOS.
   - It may be useful to negotiate a xenstore v2 protocol and use that for new
   guests.  It could use a simple fixed-length binary protocol
   (protobuf-style?), and eliminate the need for transactions perhaps.

In general, it was very positive and there was lots of interest in Irmin. Some
feedback from attendees is that some more structure around Mirage would help
people who want to contribute. Right now there are libraries everywhere and
it's difficult to see where you can get involved without having to understand
everything. Making a framework around the upcoming headline features would be
especially useful. This would be something like a roadmap for Mirage 3.0.
Overall, we should be aiming to get better at this kind of thing with every
release (and for the most part, we seem to be —
[feedback is always welcome][feedback]!).

[xen-summit]: http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/xen-project-developer-summit
[abstract]: http://sched.co/1nhbdHE
[thread]: http://lists.xenproject.org/archives/html/mirageos-devel/2014-08/msg00100.html
[slides]: http://www0.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/f.huici/presentations/clickos-xendevsummit14.pdf
[feedback]: https://mirageos.org/community/

#### Conduit merge ####

Got HTTP request working through Mirage. Requires DNS and TCP set up and the
like. It's quite a big patch set, which touches a number of libraries and a
number of things are not backward compatible.  Hence these need to be
co-ordinated and there's an issue to track this ([mirage/mirage#287][287]).
Dave will add vchan support when ready. This is an important set of patches
and we will get a working transport layer.  The updates to mirage-skeleton are
minor and also tracked in the issue. 

[287]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage/issues/287

#### Irmin status update ####

ThomasG investigating how he could remove the `core_kernel` dependency
and is also cleaning up
Benjamin Farinier's `queues` and `ropes` work to port that in.
[Bug reports][irmin-tracker] are coming in from early users and one of the
main points is that we should improve the user side of things.

[irmin-tracker]: https://github.com/mirage/irmin/issues

#### Profiling ARM ####

ThomasL trying to get profiling data out of ARM, with the intent of producing
some fun and useful graphs to share.

Anil previously mentioned getting ethernet at 100MB. Seems we can get 18MB over
UDP at the moment and Linux only manages 13MB. TCP on Mirage is 11MB and Linux
gets 40MB. Not really clear what these difference are due to. Also tried to
dump from console but turned out to be Xen that was rate limiting things. Anil
suggested that Thomas check that the free slots in rings are being fully
utilised.

It would be really useful if opam can make the profiling process easier. A
compiler switch could help with this and ThomasG can look into that (for
native, not bytecode).

When this is done, ThomasL will write it all up with lots of pretty graphs.


#### Xen-ARM vs Xen-x86 ####

Amir has some fairly basic questions about Xen, Mirage and ARM.  Specifically,
what the differences are between Xen on the cloud (x86) and embedded devices
(ARM). Others tell him this mainly relates to Mini-OS and it's relation to
Mirage (and ClickOS and HaLVM etc). There are several posts that might help
explain things, for example ThomasL's [blog post on ARM][arm-blog] and wiki
pages on [Xen events][xen-events] and [setting up a Cubieboard2][cubieboard].
Amir will start with those and if anything isn't clear, he'll ask ThomasG
about it. Amir might write this up for the website if it'll help explain to
others too.

*\[edit: This is proof that there's no such thing as a stupid question - AC\]*

[arm-blog]: https://mirageos.org/blog/introducing-xen-minios-arm
[cubieboard]: https://mirageos.org/docs/xen-on-cubieboard2
[xen-events]: https://mirageos.org/docs/xen-events

#### AoB ####

- **ARM features**: New stuff coming. Next version of Xen might take advantage
of this so we should think about this in time.

- Some of the packages in the [Xapi opam remote][xapi-remote] are ready to go
upstream. Largely because Dave got them in shape recently.

- We had another hiccup with the call today and we need to fix this. Proposal
is that we sort out a GoToMeeting account such that more than one person can
start the call. GTM is better than Google Hangouts as it allows for people to
dial in by phone (very useful when travelling or on poor wifi).

- Next call is scheduled for **2nd September** - Please refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[xapi-remote]: https://github.com/xapi-project/opam-repo-dev
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel

