---
updated: 2015-08-26
author:
  name: Richard Mortier
  uri: http://mort.io/
  email: mort@cantab.net
subject: 'Weekly Meeting: 2015-08-26'
permalink: weekly-2015-08-26
description: '26th August 2015: QA, Rust progress, Irmin API changes and minutes of previous calls'
---

+ Quality and Test
+ Rust progress
+ Irmin API changes
+ Minutes of previous calls

## Attendees

Daniel Buenzli, Amir Chaudhry, Thomas (samoht) Gazagnaire, Thomas Leonard, Jon
Ludlam, Anil Madhavapeddy, Hannes Mehnert, Richard (mort) Mortier (secretary),
Mindy Preston, Dave Scott, Magnus Skejgstad

## Notes

### QA & Test

Work has proceeded on `ciso`, a distributed test infrastructure using Irmin as
the coordination layer. Operates somewhat like XenStore: you can register
watches, schedule "tasks" (comprising "jobs") that are submitted by writing into
the store for workers who're registered via watches. Observe store to see entire
status of system: jobs, workers, etc. First large-scale Irmin application. Irmin
means you can inspect the entire state but also means that a mistake can nuke
your entire repo (though only once). This is essentially the Grand Unified Merge
of all of @samoht's projects over the years.

Discussion about deployments. @anil suggests running two deployments, for Mirage
and OPAM respectively. Some disucssion whether Citrix want to use it for XAPI.
Consensus from @dave/@jon was "maybe". Similar discussion for Jane Street
leading to question whether XenStore pieces can be pulled out separately.
@samoht felt he could abstract the three schedulers (task, job, worker). @anil
will try to deploy towards end of this week.

@anil: on QA, have done lots of upstreaming, refreshed all packages on the
planet to everywhere. ~60 patches going into OpenBSD to allow `tlstunnel` to be
shipped. FreeBSD now fixed so works out of the box. ArchLinux still broken. But
generally we're in good shape to start getting command line tools in place to
get the libraries out there, then go for the Full Mirage Experience.

Discussion about ongoing `blockdev` naming, `.xl` generation etc. @dave felt PR
ok but Travis was having some problems. He'll take lead on merging. (_ed: and
this is now done I think._)

Some discussion of grim @mort patch to get environment variable parsing into the
`mirage` CLI tool. Agreement it was indeed grim and @samoht would not merge :)
Discussion of what might need to be in `cmdliner` to parse environment
variables. @daniel indicated something is coming to fix all that: features to
compose environment variables with command-line flags, with the flag taking
precedence in creating the `Term`, with auto-documentation etc. On the issue
tracker as #23, should be complete in the next few days.

### Rust Support

Unfortunately, no-one very active on Rust support could make it.

@thomas: More generally, Mini-OS patch upstreaming is on-going but Ian Campbell
is on holiday at present. When he's back the last patch is expected to go in.
This is going to break the `qdom` scripts but no-one wants to look at it. @anil
feels these may get nuked soon anyway.

@thomas is going to add some `figlet` (perhaps) ASCII art (and kill some of the
debug spew) to bootup to make everything friendlier.

### Irmin API Changes

@samoht had "nothing to say" apart from begging for more time! :)

@thomas questions about concurrent connections and resulting API confusions.
@samoht says current API intended to make it easy to track which objects are
live, with the aim of hiding concurrency but at the cost of perhaps not always
being the correct thing to do.

Discussion about this issue and the way its supported for the indexdb backend,
and its ability to do atomic transactions in browser, while the POSIX file-based
backend can't.

Summary is that the issues arise due to invariants that the JS backend doesn't
maintain. Workarounds will be incoming as PRs; the first (#268) will be merged.

### Previous Minutes

@thomas noted missing minutes from the index page. @amir explained this was due
to two issues: updates not being pushed, and the process for updating the index
being manual and not always being done.

(_ed: I note that three updates seem to be required-- adding the notes
themselves under `/tmpl/wiki/weekly/`, adding a reference in `src/data.ml`, and
adding a link to `/tmpl/wiki/index.md`._)

### Jitsu on Monk

@anil wanted to know about homepages being served by Jitsu and how often things
were being woken up by crawlers etc. @magnus noted that his demo pages sleep
most of the time. @anil asked if we can put Jitsu and unikernels on `monk`.
@dave felt not quite due to a Xen booting issue with CentOS7 (now installed). He
will tag a particularly good version of the XAPI code for us to use. @anil then
noted the main missing piece is Apache style logging from CoHTTP and Irmin which
requires Irmin/Xen to be merged. @samoht still has patches queued. @mindy noted
that the Irmin/ARP demo uses the Unix backend but can run in memory on Xen, and
@samoht that `git push` to a `git repo` doesn't work but `irmin push` is fine.
There was then some general realisation that we can simply have websites `irmin
push` logs to an Irmin server running on Unix listening for log collection.

Revisiting the first point, @mort asked @anil about processing his decades of
website logs to (effectively) explore multiplexing factors of unikernel
(websites at least). @anil said he will look into this.

### AoB

None specified at this time.

