---
updated: 2015-01-28
author:
  name: Amir Chaudhry
  uri: http://amirchaudhry.com
  email: amirmc@gmail.com
subject: 'Weekly Meeting: 2015-01-28'
permalink: weekly-2015-01-28
description: '28th Jan 2014: OPAM 1.2, FOSDEM, new URL and 3.0 meta-planning'
---

### Agenda ###

- Move to only OPAM 1.2
- FOSDEM demo
- TLS merge progress
- Turning on mirage.io?
- Planning for 3.0

Attendees: 
Amir Chaudhry (chair), David Kaloper, Thomas Leonard, Jon Ludlam,
Hannes Mehnert, Richard Mortier, Dave Scott and Mindy Preston


### Notes ###

#### OPAM 1.2 support only ####

ThomasG submitted a patch for the `mirage` tool to enable the switch to
OPAM 1.2 only. The patch should report an error and ask users to upgrade
OPAM 1.2. This matters as the upstream distros are still on OPAM 1.1 (e.g
Ubuntu).  we still need to decide what we want and it would be good to make
the patch user controlled (e.g user can override it if they want).

#### FOSDEM demo ####

Amir is heading to FOSDEM this coming weekend and has planned a demo around
serving a game from the cubieboard (via setting up a wifi access point).
Having issues with the wifi bridge but not sure what the problem really is.
Will need to get this working if there's to be a demo.

#### TLS Merge progress ####

This is waiting on DavidK, who has to review and merge TLS patches. Recently
been playing with a TLS unikernel on Xen and working towards a paper. Will
also be inviting people to break it soon.

Still have the entropy story to communicate and are starting with xentropyd.
Should be done in a few days with patch reviews.

ThomasL has a few other changes to the FLOW interface that need to be dealt
with (Error messages in a few places). There's an issue on mirage-dev before
there can be releases ([mirage/mirage-dev#52][]). Most components can be
released with the updates, but some need to be done together (e.g. TLS both
provides and uses the new interface). It would be possible to make all the
updates decoupled if preferred (e.g. first updating TLS to provide the new
interface, then releasing the new interface, then updating tls a second time
to use the new API).
There might also be more changes to libs/interfaces
that might be breaking so better to do this now. For example, there is the
`DEVICE.connect` change ([mirage/mirage#350][]). Hannes mentioned that it not
yet 1.0 so shouldn't be too worried about breaking interfaces. no-crypto could
also use a release and TLS release will have to wait for things like error
reporting.


#### Turning on mirage.io? ####

Anil didn't make it to the call. Will need to wait until he's present before
this can be discussed.


#### Planning for 3.0 ####

Amir proposed putting together a wiki page to collect all the issues and
thoughts for the next major release. The intent is to put together a stable
and visible plan so that we can better track progress, and make clearer
decisions. At the moment, we have relevant issues scattered everywhere but no
clear location by which we can chart progress.  Too much is inside people's
heads. Amir's happy to curate this page by bringing it up once a month on the
calls.


-- 

#### AoB ####

- ThomasL joining the Mirage core team and will be responsible for review and
patches merging across libraries (he's been doing this already).

- The next call is scheduled for **Wednesday, 11th February** - Please add any
[agenda items][call-agenda] you wish to discuss in advance and refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[call-agenda]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Call-Agenda
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel

[mirage/mirage-dev#52]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-dev/pull/52
[mirage/mirage#350]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage/pull/350

