---
updated: 2015-02-25 16:00
author:
  name: Amir Chaudhry
  uri: http://amirchaudhry.com
  email: amirmc@gmail.com
subject: 'Weekly Meeting: 2015-02-25'
permalink: weekly-2015-02-25
description: '25th Feb 2015: Races, Testing, Deployment, Pioneers and Roadmapping'
---

### Agenda ###

- `mirage-net-xen` race issue
- Quality and test infrastructure
- Deployment automation
- Irmin progress
- Steps to Mirage.io
- Pioneer Projects
- 3.0 Planning


Attendees: Amir Chaudhry (chair), Thomas Gazagnaire, Heidi Howard,
David Kaloper, Thomas Leonard, Anil Madhavapeddy, Hannes Mehnert,
Richard Mortier, Dave Scott, Mindy Preston, Nicolas Ojeda Bar
and Magnus Skjegstad


### Notes ###

#### mirage-net-xen race issue #### 

There seems to be a dead-lock/race issue somewhere in the [mirage-net-xen][]
1.3.0 release ([mirage/mirage-net-xen#20][]). We originally thought this might
be something to do with one of Dave's patches but it's not clear that's really
the case. Currently, we're not even sure if it's *definitely* a v1.3 issue but
things do seem to work under v1.2.  It's even possible that it could be a dom0
problem.  A reproduction of the issue from others would be quite helpful and
Magnus mentioned he would give this a shot. Either way, this tells us we need
more unit tests, as we've [previously discussed][quality].  

[quality]: https://mirage.io/wiki/weekly-2015-02-11#ImprovingQuality
[mirage-net-xen]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-net-xen
[mirage/mirage-net-xen#20]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-net-xen/issues/20


#### Quality and test infrastructure #### 

[Last time][quality], we discussed whether we may be able to do certain things
with OPAM remotes (e.g like splicing between remotes).  After a chat with
Louis, the lead maintainer of OPAM, it seems this would not be a
straightforward thing to do — which means it's not an avenue we can explore
for now.

What we can realistically do in the short term is improve our own practices.
We have all the pieces in place so it's a matter of using them and getting
into the habit of incorporating them into our normal process. Something that
would really help is a QuickCheck style library. \[*It seems [QuickCheck][]
is in OPAM but code maintenance is quite unclear - Amir*\]

It was raised that we have a nice modular network stack which is abstracted
away from things underneath. There may be a way to use this approach to
benefit more systematic testing. This is relevant to the trace-checking work
that DavidK is working on and in addition, trying to get `pcap` input would be
good. Many of these things are tied to the performance framework and getting
to something that would let us run `Iperf` everyday would be great.

Anil proposed forming a breakout squad with himself, DavidK and Mindy who would
think about testing and performance issues — Hannes was also suggested but
he declined, stating dryly that he doesn't really care about performance
(resulting in laughter from everyone else). Someone else who's done things in
this area is Luke Dunstan (another contributor), so it's worth being aware of
those efforts.

In general, the approach should be that we should work on the simple things
before the more complicated things.  However, it's not always clear what is
meant by 'simple'.  To help clarify this, we should constrain it to things
within a single unikernel — no aspects of dom0 or anything else.

Since testing and quality is such an important issue, Amir will keep it on the
agenda for each call.

[QuickCheck]: http://opam.ocaml.org/packages/quickcheck/quickcheck.1.0.2/


#### Deployment automation #### 

Amir's interested to see what solutions/scripts people have created around how
we *deploy* unikernels.  He's particularly interested in automated processes
that pick up from where his previous [Jekyll to Unikernel post][ac-jekyll-unik]
left off (i.e. with a unikernel committed into a deployment repo).  

After a quick poll of attendees, it seems that the deployment processes people
use is quite diverse.  Mindy has a set of scripts for EC2, Anil uses a cronjob
and Dave has used XAPI.  Each of these seems bespoke and it's unlikely
anything is shared between them (compare with the TravisCI set up, which has
become quite consistent across projects).

Amir will look over these to see where things stand and will likely write up a
blog post about his ideal deployment workflow. Ultimately, his desire is to
set up an end-to-end system such that a git push to a repo will finish with a
newly built unikernel being started on one of our Bytemark machines.

[ac-jekyll-unik]: http://amirchaudhry.com/from-jekyll-to-unikernel-in-fifty-lines


#### Irmin progress #### 

ThomasL is making a browser-based ToDo app that uses Irmin with local HTML5
storage.  This is to replace his current task management system (also
browser-based).  At present, it's not talking to any server (so no backup), is
fully in the browser and commits on every change. It's not too difficult to do
sync but it is difficult to use any git tools (due to lack of support) — 
ThomasL is not using the Git backend yet. One very useful thing would be
getting the SHA-1 code implemented elsewhere. We can either expose it from
where it is currently or put the code elsewhere.  The next step for ThomasG is
to compile zlib library to Xen.

When this system works it would be really useful for Real World OCaml
commenting system.  It would allow the comment to be stored locally first and
*then* synced to the GitHub 'back-end' — thus solving a problem some users
have reported about comments being lost in transit.

The repository with ThomasL's app is [cuekeeper][] — though be aware that it
doesn't do anything yet!  There's also a useful thread on the mailing list,
which has both Thomas' involved, where questions about the library and API
have been discussed. That thread is likely useful for anyone wanting to
explore Irmin, with the caveat that it's alpha/beta stage and there have
almost certainly been changes pushed during the discussions (email thread is:
"[Irmin API newbie questions][api-q]").

[cuekeeper]: https://github.com/talex5/cuekeeper
[api-q]: http://lists.xenproject.org/archives/html/mirageos-devel/2015-02/msg00049.html


#### Steps to Mirage.io ####

Amir would like to switch to using [mirage.io][mir-www] as the primary domain
(it currently redirects to openmirage.org - so he's using it already).  This
is more than just a straightforward record change as we'll begin to use more
of our other tools as part of the underlying site infrastructure (e.g. DNS
zone). To this end, Anil has been reinstalling the second Bytemark machine in
order to run a version of Xenserver. We will also need to sort out
certificates as we should be running HTTPS for the site.

[mir-www]: http://mirage.io

#### Pioneer Projects #### 

It seems there's been caution from new users about taking on Pioneer Projects
as the meaning of the difficulty levels is a little vague.  This partly
relates to expected knowledge of OCaml and also domain-specific expertise (e.g
networking, security, storage, etc.).  Our thoughts are that trying to learn
*both* OCaml *and* a new area as part of a Pioneer Project will be quite
challenging. Hence the suggestion is for a newcomer to pick an area that
they're familiar with so that they have some grounding and can learn how we've
implemented things.  If the projects listed do not overlap with someone's
existing area of knowledge then that person should mention their experience on
the [mailing list][mir-mail] so we can consider new categories of projects.

If someone only has limited experience from elsewhere to draw on, and is
completely new to OCaml, then we should point to existing resources so that
they can get up speed (e.g. [Real World OCaml][rwo], etc).

We must take care with the difficulty levels as what we consider to be a
2-star project from our perspective may be perceived as quite challenging by
the person undertaking the project.  This could have a detrimental effect if
people think everything is actually harder than advertised.

Having said this, we really do need more 1-star projects. There are likely
many things we've thought about doing that we haven't quite got around to.
Please look through your issue trackers in case it helps you come up with
something. One suggestion was that writing a CLI client front-end for
something like the [IMAP server][imaplet], would be useful and straightforward.
Indeed, CLIs for many other libraries would be valuable, including TLS,
Syndic etc.

Anil will put together a simple cohttp project, ThomasG already added a 2-star
project and Amir will write an explanatory page to go alongside the current
Pioneer Projects page to describe the thoughts above.

[rwo]: https://realworldocaml.org
[imaplet]: https://opam.ocaml.org/packages/imaplet-lwt/imaplet-lwt.0.1.9/


#### 3.0 Planning #### 

Amir's put together a [Roadmap][] page on the wiki, where we can (1) collect
thoughts about what we might like to see in future versions of MirageOS and
(2) filter that list into an agreed set of efforts for the next major release.
Note that these are two *separate* processes and we should take care not to
conflate them.  Essentially, one is about ideation/creativity and the other is
about decisive filtering and prioritisation.  Hopefully, it's self-evident as
to why it can be difficult to do both in one step (especially with large
groups of people).

It's worth pointing out that the roadmap is *not* a feature-list. It's meant
to be a description of the *areas* where we think we should focus efforts.
This lends itself to defining clearer goals which we can collectively commit
to — knowing that our efforts will be in aligned with everyone else's.  It may
help to think of specific scenarios if the above description feels too broad.

Some thoughts from the attendees included:
- Quality/Testing is a feature
- Treat 3.0 as the deployment release — i.e. will run in 'production' for a long time so act accordingly
- Could think of this as the one that ties up all the loose ends
- Improve the docs and onboarding process
- Better integration between components ("end up back in n-squared space")
- Javascript

This agenda item will be brought up once a month and we will converge on the
efforts we want to focus on for the 3.0 release. This may happen very quickly
or it may take more discussion but either way, it will be recorded in these
notes.

[roadmap]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Roadmap

-- 

#### AoB ####

- Amir is mentoring the **Static Site Pioneer Project** with David Sheets and
someone has stepped forward to work on this (yay!) — will report back as
things progress

- **OPAM testing**: [Beta 3][beta3] is now out and *should* be stable so
please do try it out!

- The next call is scheduled for **Wednesday, 11th March** - Please add any
[agenda items][call-agenda] you wish to discuss in advance and refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[beta3]: https://github.com/ocaml/opam/releases/tag/1.2.1-beta3
[call-agenda]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Call-Agenda
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel

