---
updated: 2015-05-20
author:
  name: Amir Chaudhry
  uri: http://amirchaudhry.com
  email: amirmc@gmail.com
subject: 'Weekly Meeting: 2015-05-20'
permalink: weekly-2015-05-20
description: '20th May 2015: TLS release progress, Mirage.io, Jitsu and Irmin'
---

### Agenda ###

- Quality and Test
- TLS release planning
- Mirage.io status
- Jitsu status update
- Irmin sync from browser
- Docs on XenProject
- 3.0 Planning

Attendees: Reynir Björnsson, Amir Chaudhry (chair), Thomas Gazagnaire,
David Kaloper, Masoud Koleini, Thomas Leonard, Hannes Mehnert,
Richard Mortier, Dave Scott, Balraj Singh, Anil Madhavapeddy, Jon Ludlum,
Jeremy Yallop and Mindy Preston


### Notes ###

#### Quality and Test ####

Mindy has written some tests for networking and they're passing. A point was
made that they could be functorised.  Other tests that force error loops would
also be useful. For example, the 'while true curl' route?  There's also the
desire to be able to run tests on live sites (e.g. mirage-www).  For example,
something like http-perf when a new kernel is booted? Mindy suggested
something that Anil would look into.

We've also noticed an issue with <https://mirageos.org> as it goes unresponsive
after few days.  We're not really sure what the issue is but it's not strictly
within the the TLS stack (Piñata and handshake server have been fine).  If
anyone else can stress test what's going on, that would be very useful.  


#### TLS release planning ####

We'll soon be doing a set of releases that are related to native TLS support.
We do need more tests and deployments of the combined stack because right now
there are only two deployments that are providing feedback.  We really need
more people to try this out and report feedback.

Some of the releases will involve fixing `conduit` patches and changing the
`mirage` tool to adapt to new the API.  There was also one person on the opam
repository who complained about issues around zarith. Hannes has a PR to fix
this and it also works on his Cubieboard. The other big thing to deal with is
`mirage-entropy-xen`.  

Anil had some ideas on how to fix the launchpad PPA for `binutils` and `gcc`.
The workaround is ok for now but the main thing is to make sure it doesn't
affect other packages in opam. 

A TLS tunnel unix binary is also in production to replace `stunnel`. It's
*almost* a slot-in replacement but has a slightly different CLI. It's worth
trying out now and Dave said he'd take a look.

The TLS stack has been deployed on <https://realworldocaml.org> and Anil has
found that it's been rock solid for weeks. Balraj couldn't get it to work from
Chrome from a hotel connection from his laptop. This was probably a transient
issue or due to odd middle-box behaviour.
<!-- Not sure if this was a transient issue or we should blame the NSA. -->  

The [Logjam][] attack was also announced in the morning and the team is
checking over things to understand how it affects us (if at all, since we
don't support 'export'). You can follow the discussions at
[mirleft/ocaml-tls#271][271].

[Logjam]: https://weakdh.org
[271]: https://github.com/mirleft/ocaml-tls/issues/271


#### Mirage.io status ####

This is running a unikernel with the TLS stack.  Also running its own DNS
servers again, which means it's back to being *fully* self-hosted (hasn't been
that way for 6 months). There are patches to submit to TCP/IP. 


#### Jitsu status update ####

Jitsu itself seems to be working well - Magnus has been running a public,
low-traffic DNS server ever since NSDI. A few minor bugs have been discovered
but nothing major so far.  We questioned whether there was a way to to use
Jitsu on XenServer. This might be possible on the development version but
probably not on the currently released version.


#### Irmin sync from browser #### 

Irmin sync in the browser is now working!  It's going to a memory store on
Unix using Irmin native. ThomasL had to patch `bin_prot` as apparently it
didn't like being turned into JavaScript. Everyone should be able to check it
out and test it. 

There are some serialisation issues though. When you serialise a value in
Irmin it doesn't include length so you can't compose them. This is fixable and
ThomasG will go and check it. We should make sure to upstream the various
patches too.


#### Docs on XenProject ####

It's important that we put some content on the
[Xen Project wiki pages][xen-wiki] about MirageOS. A number of newcomers find
out about MirageOS via Xen Project, yet the content on the wiki there is quite
limited and also out of date.  The best approach is probably to put some
stable content there and point people to the docs page on our own site at:
<https://mirageos.org/docs> — Amir will look at this over the coming weeks.

[xen-wiki]: http://wiki.xenproject.org/wiki/Category:Mirage_Devel

#### 3.0 Planning ####

We have more tests and more quality libraries. Continuing the efforts around
test would be great and we should think of this as being the
'production-ready' release.

Beyond 3.0, it would be great to be in a position to support multiple backends.
We'll be able to think about this once all the details of compatibility become
clearer.  OCamlJava would be one of the things to think about but this is
necessarily a longer term effort. 


-- 

#### AoB ####

- Regarding some of the (TCP) patches, we note that `libvirt` doesn't support
command line arguments. Perhaps we can ask Dave about this. Might even be
worth getting in touch to see if they can add this. 

- Security mailing list — We've internally discussed the need for a
lightweight security advisory process, so this should be added to list of
items before release. 

- Cross-compilation: This is going well. Question about when we drop 4.01
support. Not clear that anyone is tied to 4.01 for production code. May well
be that MirageOS 3.0 will be the one to drop 4.01 support but will need to
define a cut off date. Must also comprehensively replace camlp4, which is
necessary to improve the situation on ARM. The cutoff should be defined when
all our libs are released using `ppx` instead, with the same functionality —
cf. typeconv from JaneStreet.

- The next call is scheduled for **Wednesday, 3rd June**. Please add any
[agenda items][call-agenda] you wish to discuss in advance and refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[call-agenda]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Call-Agenda
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel

