---
updated: 2015-01-14
author:
  name: Amir Chaudhry
  uri: http://amirchaudhry.com
  email: amirmc@gmail.com
subject: 'Weekly Meeting: 2015-01-14'
permalink: weekly-2015-01-14
description: '14th Jan 2014: Project name, 4.02.1 support, TLS on Xen and Error handling'
---

### Agenda ###

- "Mirage OS" or "MirageOS"?
- Pull OCaml runtime/bindings into packages / OCaml 4.02.1 support
- TLS on Xen
- Error handling in Mirage
- Planning for 3.0


Attendees: Amir Chaudhry (chair), Thomas Gazagnaire, David Kaloper,
Thomas Leonard, Jon Ludlam, Anil Madhavapeddy, Hannes Mehnert,
Richard Mortier, Dave Scott and Magnus Skjegstad


### Notes ###

#### "Mirage OS" or "MirageOS"? ####

We need to settle on how we refer to the project and then be consistent in its
use. In the early days it was referred to variously as 'Mirage', 'Open
Mirage', 'Mirage OS' and 'MirageOS'.  When we became a
[Xen Incubated project][incubation], we had a brief discussion about the
'official' name (for press releases etc) and we settled on 'Mirage OS'. 
However, we haven't always been consistent with the way we use the term.  So
far all the official materials such as new releases, have referred to
"Mirage OS" (with a space), whereas on Twitter and our slides we see 'MirageOS'
(without a space) being used. We should stick to only one of these.

**Why does this matter?** - As we attract more users and raise more awareness,
being consistent in how we represent ourselves will begin to matter more. The
name is just one of these aspects and even though it may seem trivial, it *is*
the name of the project we're discussing here. At this stage, there should be
no confusion about how it's written.

After a brief discussion, it's clear that most of the team are less concerned
about the exact choice rather than being consistent. Only Amir and Anil had
opinions to share and they both proposed that we use 'MirageOS' from now on.
The reasons are that users have independently used this form in tweets and
posts, it is easier to search for, and it's better to go with the flow as we
still can.

Overall, we unanimously decided on two things: (1) to move forward with
'**MirageOS**' as the official name of the project and (2) be much more
consistent in using it on our written material.

In terms of practical steps, Amir will update things as he sees them on the
website and written materials. Anil suggested that we may start using a
different domain for the site too ([mirage.io](https://mirage.io)).

[incubation]: http://lists.xenproject.org/archives/html/mirageos-devel/2013-01/msg00081.html

#### OCaml 4.02.1 support ####

Anil's working on this ([mirage/mirage-platform#115][115]) and thanks ThomasL
for his patches. Hasn't had time to merge yet but will do soon. Might not
rebase it and hopes that won't be too much of a problem for anyone.  In
general we shouldn't do that but this one would take a while to rebase and
would prefer to merge quickly.  The upcoming functor inline patch will a have
big performance boost but we should clearly state that we're not dropping
support for 4.01 though. The patch applies cleanly on trunk (it's currently in
a branch) and the work already done to port Mirage to 4.02.1 should mean that
any additional changes we need to make are trivial.

In addition, we should be careful to maintain support for OPAM 1.1 or at the
very least, warn the user if something won't work with v1.1. Many of the
upstream distros are still on this version and silent failures result in
confusion and frustration. There are also an increasing number of libraries
going for 4.02.1 support only, but it would be better to try and maintain
support for 4.01 as long as possible (for the same reasons as above).

[115]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-platform/pull/115


#### TLS on Xen ####

ThomasL started an [email thread][tls-thread] about getting the TLS stack
working on Xen.  He's submitted a number of patches for review to different
libraries and the changes needed are:

1. Add generic error handling for FLOWs, so we can propagate errors reliably.
2. Fix the page alignment requirements for Netif.
3. Add TLS support to conduit.

TLS now works if you apply lots of patches and works pretty well (half the
speed of not using TLS — which is good!).
Issue now is how to merge without breaking things as
certain module signatures change.  There was some discussion of functorising
and the knock-on effect this would have but overall it seems like we can keep
this as an interface-level problem.  

There's still the question of getting entropy in Xen. We need several ways to
do this and [xentropyd][] is the one way we currently have if dom0 cooperates.
This is fine for our infrastructure as we control dom0 (on cubieboards and
x86).  However, we also need to be able to gather entropy in other ways for
deployments to third-party infrastructure. The actual code for getting entropy
is straightforward but how it is then composed needs to be considered.

In general, there's reluctance to release the TLS stuff until there's an
entropy story so DavidK may take a look at the options.  In the meantime,
we're happy to have an intermediate patch that *only* uses xentropyd and we
can then use it for websites hosted on our own infrastructure.

[tls-thread]: http://lists.xenproject.org/archives/html/mirageos-devel/2015-01/msg00066.html
[mirage-dev]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-dev
[xentropyd]: https://github.com/mirage/xentropyd


#### Error handling in Mirage ####

ThomasL has been working on this. To make conduit `FLOW` wrap the TLS flows we
need a way to propagate the errors sensibly, so has added a type to `FLOW`
that can do this. It might be nice to have an algebraic data type to describe
an error type, or if we wait a few months until we switch to 4.02.1, then we
can just use [Open Types][opentypes]
(see additional comment from ThomasL below).
The nice thing with current patch is
that you don't lose the error type. It works well but there's an issue
regarding merge order, e.g. TLS and conduit, where they use it but also
provide it. Easiest way would be to adjust the dependencies and push things to
[mirage dev][] and then co-ordinate the releases.  It then becomes
straightforward to get things merged into the main OPAM repository.

Another comment was that it might make sense to have the err handling in
`DEVICE` and have it everywhere but that would touch about 20 repos, so not
likely to do that just yet.

[opentypes]: https://sites.google.com/site/ocamlopen/
[mirage dev]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-dev

\[Thomas Leonard additionally sent the following comment:\]

"We already have algebraic data types for errors, which is good if you want to
match on a particular error from a particular concrete implementation (e.g.
`FAT_index_corrupted` or something). In theory, this is slightly more correct
than using exceptions because error returns don't propagate automatically. e.g.
if you get `Refused` from TCP then you know it was the TCP connection itself
that was refused, not some other refusal from another function TCP called that
happened to throw the same exception. In practice, this doesn't seem to be a
problem except when using very generic exceptions like `Not_found`.

I guess using open types means we can list some common errors in the
interfaces but have implementations provide more, which may be useful but
doesn't solve my problem: when you *don't* want to handle specific exceptions
we need a way to get a human-readable string for display (and this is the
common case).

So:

* Replacing error codes with exceptions (which I proposed originally) would
work most of the time and would simplify the code greatly, although it's
slightly less strict than the current system. On the other hand, the current
system encourages people to throw away errors (look at any `main.ml` for
examples!) so I'm sure it would be an overall improvement. It would require
API changes everywhere, however.

* Adding an `error_message` function (which my current patches do) means that
people can still handle errors as before when needed, but can also always get
a human-readable string too, so there's never any excuse for throwing away
diagnostic information. You do still need to write error handling code
everywhere when you just want to propagate exceptions, though, which clutters
the code, and old code will continue to discard useful information for some
time to come."

#### Planning for 3.0 ####

Amir would like to start putting together a plans for a 3.0 release but there
wasn't time to begin discussions on this call. Will schedule it for next time
and keep it as a recurring item once every other call (i.e once a month).

-- 

#### AoB ####

- Need to get **[Jitsu][]** ready in next couple of weeks. Need libxl patches
from DavidS/JonL and they're probably ok (will submit as an RFC). There's also
a desire to calculate timings from HTTP req to serving the response so shared
some ideas about how best to do this. Amir also has a use-case he wants to
deploy and write about.

- The next call is scheduled for **Wednesday, 28th January** - Please add any
[agenda items][call-agenda] you wish to discuss in advance and refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[Jitsu]: https://github.com/MagnusS/jitsu
[call-agenda]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Call-Agenda
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel

