---
updated: 2016-02-03
author:
  name: Amir Chaudhry
  uri: http://amirchaudhry.com
  email: amirmc@gmail.com
subject: 'Weekly Meeting: 2016-02-03'
permalink: weekly-2016-02-03
description: '3rd Feb 2016: Dropping 4.01 support and Hackathon.'
---

### Agenda ###

- Quality and Test
- Functoria status
- Outreachy status
- MirageOS Hackathon status


Attendees:
Amir (chair), Anil, Thomas Leonard, Dave Scott, Thomas G, Mort, 
Dan Williams, Daniel, Chris, matt-g, Hannes, pablo polvorin, Jeremy


### Notes ###

#### Quality and Test ####

- Merged a huge test from Jane street. 
- Now have a camlp4-free version and can compile very fast.
- Now need to do a bunch of point releases related to the change.
- Just need to rename some of the dependencies — will remove the constraints
we have.
- Overall effect is we can depend on PPX only.  Does anyone need to support
4.01 anymore?
- Should focus on 4.02 and trunk. Only the Xen people might care. 
- Docker containers work and they're all published. Thanks to DBunzli for
feedback.
- Should be able to test all distros from a PR.
- 4.01 is in Debian. Stick with it for that?
- Since we have docker containers and opam switch, we should probably leave
4.01 behind now. Hard to maintain both camlpp4 and ppx.
- Maybe keep the libs supporting 4.01 where possible but not be tied to it.
- DanW: The Docs should be updated to match. Anil: we have codoc that we used
but need to finish this. Thanks for reminder.

#### Functoria status ####

- Not much to say since last time. On the brink of the release.
- Should coordinate with press release?
- Code review status? Yallop looking over it but otherwise happy.
- Anil noticed one issue when trying to look at dependency chain for the xen
packages. Will file an issue.
- Some question since Solo5 is a different backend. Should we adjust the
config now to be able to work with this and other backends? We should have a
blocker to mirage 3.0?
- In terms of functoria tutorials. There's the blog post but not much more.
Mort is going to try out Solo5 stuff this weekend.
- Rumprun and MirageOS and Functoria? Cross-compilation is still a 'thing'.
Adam Wick is trying things with HaLVM and Rump kernels so we can follow in his
footsteps once things are clearer.


#### Outreachy Status ####

- Kia is on east coast US. Sent an email to list yesterday about the code and
a blog post. Another 4 weeks to go. All is in hand.
- Difficult to join calls due to timezone.


#### MirageOS hackathon ####

- We have over 30 people signed up — but we have 27 beds :)
- Can people participate remotely? Anil will bring video conf stuff
- If we have crucible projects that would be useful. Half the people are new
to MirageOS. Particularly end-to-end app problems would be good.
- Hannes has set up a mailing list for participants. Will kick this off so
people can chat. Will also bring labels to the meeting.
- Hannes' plan was to write to the mailing list and make a wiki page to enable
collaboration amongst people.
- Hope someone else will organise another one in three months!


--

#### AoB ####

- Mailing list and devel.unikernel.org: Should we use the latter more? Move
all the old MirageOS threads in there? There may be utility to share things
between unikernel projects. Would need to plan for a cut over date. DBunzli
likes mailing list for discussion quality. Should set up a test to ingest
archive.

- SCALE conference: Snow storm cancelled Anil's flight. Amir and Mort made it.
Videos are online. 

- Cross compilation discussion with rump/solo5 etc. Next step for DanW is to
get familiar with build system stuff (and Functoria). Ask Gabriel Radanne re
the call. Can have a wiki to put info into as people discover things.
DBunzli: the first things we need is support in opam, which allows us to do it
in a clean fashion. People have been working on this.

- The next call is scheduled for **17th February**. Please add any
[agenda items][call-agenda] you wish to discuss in advance and refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[call-agenda]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Call-Agenda
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel

