We're excited to announce MirageOS 3.0!  [Full release notes are available on GitHub](https://github.com/mirage/mirage/releases/tag/v3.0.0), but here's a summary of the bits we're most excited about:

### Solo5

MirageOS 3.0.0 is the first release that integrates the solo5 targets, `virtio` and `ukvm`, fully with the `mirage` front-end tool.  Now you can `mirage configure -t ukvm`, build a unikernel, and run directly with the generated `ukvm-bin`!  We've updated the "hello world" tutorial to reflect our excitement about `ukvm` -- the `ukvm` target is considerably easier to interface with and configure than `xen` was, and for a lot of users this will be a clearer path toward building and running proper unikernels.

For a lot more information on the Solo5 targets, see [the earlier blog post announcing solo5](/tmpl/blog/introducing-solo5), [Unikernel Monitors: Extending Minimalism Outside of the Box](https://www.usenix.org/conference/hotcloud16/workshop-program/presentation/williams), and [the very readable solo5 repository README](https://github.com/solo5/solo5/tree/master/README.md).  It's also possible to [run solo5 unikernels on FreeBSD via bhyve](https://hannes.nqsb.io/Posts/Solo5).

We'd like to thank particularly, but in no particular order, the following people who contributed to Solo5: Dan Williams, Martin Lucina, Ricardo Koller, Hannes Mehnert, Ian Campbell, helpful GitHub users myechuri and waldyrious, Anil Madhavapeddy, Sean Grove, and David Kaloper.

### Playing More Nicely with OPAM

MirageOS 3 has a much richer interface for dealing with the package manager and external library dependencies.  A user can now specify a version or range of versions for a package dependency, and the `mirage` front-end tool will construct a custom `opam` file including both those package dependencies and the ones automatically generated from `mirage configure`.  `mirage` will also consider version constraints for its own packages -- hopefully, this is the last release where `opam` won't know that your unikernels need updating.

For more information on dealing with packages and dependencies, the documentation for [the Functoria.package function](https://mirage.github.io/functoria/Functoria.html#VALpackage) will likely be of use.  [The PRNG device-usage example in mirage-skeleton](https://github.com/mirage/mirage-skeleton/blob/mirage-dev/device-usage/prng/config.ml) demonstrates some useful invocations of `package`.

We'd like to thank particularly, but in no particular order, the following people who contributed to this improvement with code, suggestions, or testing: Hannes Mehnert, Gabriel Radanne, Sean Grove, Richard Mortier, Mindy Preston, Thomas Leonard, Anil Madhavapeddy, David Scott, Vincent Bernardoff, and Thomas Gazagnaire.

### Amazing Docs

Thanks to a lot of hard work, a fully interlinked set of module documentation is now automatically generated by `odig` and available for your reading pleasure at [the MirageOS central documentation repository](https://docs.mirage.io).  While documentation was previously available for most modules, it was scattershot and often required having several disconnected pages open simultaneously.  We hope you'll find the new organization more convenient.

We'd like to thank particularly, but in no particular order, the following people who contributed to this improvement with code, suggestions, or testing: Daniel B端nzli, Anil Madhavapeddy, Thomas Gazagnaire, Thomas Leonard, Mindy Preston, Liang Wang, Hannes Mehnert, David Sheets, and Louis Gesbert.

### Result-y Errors

The module types provided by MirageOS 3 replace the previous error paradigm (a combination of exceptions and directly returning polymorphic variants) with one that uses the Result module included in OCaml 4.03 and up.  The MirageOS 3 module types define a core set of likely errors for each module type (see [the mirage-flow module type](https://mirage.github.io/mirage-flow/Mirage_flow.S.html) for an example), which can be extended by any given implementation.  Module types now specify that each implementation must include a pretty-printer that can handle all emitted error types.  Functions that return a `success` type when they run as expected return a `(success, error) Result.t`, which the caller can print with `pp_error` if the value is an `Error`.

For more background on the result type, see [the pull request adding them to OCaml](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/pull/147), the [Rresult library](http://erratique.ch/software/rresult) which defines further useful operations on `Result.t` and is used widely in MirageOS libraries, and [a forthcoming in-depth explanation of errors](TODO write then link).

We'd like to thank particularly, but in no particular order, the following people who contributed to this improvement with code, suggestions, testing, and moral support: Hannes Mehnert, Thomas Gazagnaire, Thomas Leonard, Mindy Preston, Ashish Agarwal, Leo White, Anil Madhavapeddy, Dave Scott, and Daniel B端nzli.

### Disaggregated Module Type Definitions

Breaking all of the MirageOS 3.0 APIs showed us that keeping them all in the same place made updates really difficult.  There's now an additional set of packages which contain the definitions for each set of module types (e.g. [mirage-fs](https://github.com/mirage/mirage-fs) for the `FS` module type, [mirage-block](https://github.com/mirage/mirage-block) for the `BLOCK` module type, etc).  A few module types had some additional useful code that was nicely functorized over the module type in question, so we've bundled that code in the module type packages as well.  Documentation for all of the module type packages is available at [the Mirage documentation hub](https://mirage.github.io/doc/).

We hope that this change combined with the `opam` workflow changes above will result in *much* less painful API changes in the future, as it will be possible for unikernel authors to target specific versions more readily.

We'd like to thank particularly, but in no particular order, the following people who contributed to this improvement with code, suggestions, and testing: Hannes Mehnert, Thomas Gazagnaire, Mindy Preston, Anil Madhavapeddy, and Dave Scott.

### Clockier Clocks, Timelier Time

In older MirageOS versions, we noticed that we were often having to deduce a span of time from having taken two wall-clock samples of the current time.  In MirageOS 3, you have your choice of two types of clock - `MCLOCK`, which provides a monotonically increasing clock reflecting the time elapsed since the clock started, and `PCLOCK`, which provides a traditional POSIX wall-clock time.  Most previous users of `CLOCK` were able to migrate to the more-honest, less-complicated `MCLOCK`.  For an example of both clocks, see [the speaking clock](https://github.com/mirage/mirage-skeleton/blob/mirage-dev/device-usage/clock/unikernel.ml).  You may also be interested in [an example of converting existing code from `CLOCK` to `MCLOCK`](https://github.com/mirage/mirage-tcpip/pull/232/files).

`MCLOCK` provides a nice interface for dealing with time at a nanosecond granularity.  The `TIME` module type has been updated to expect an `int64` number of nanoseconds, rather than a float, as an argument to its function `sleep`.  For those of us who don't think in nanoseconds, the [Duration](https://github.com/hannesm/duration) library provides convenient functions for translating from and to more familiar units like seconds.

We'd like to thank particularly, but in no particular order, the following people who contributed to this improvement with code, suggestions, and testing: Matt Gray, Daniel B端nzli, Hannes Mehnert, Mindy Preston, Nick Betteridge, Thomas Gazagnaire, Thomas Leonard, David Sheets, Richard Mortier, and Anil Madhavapeddy.

### Build System Shift

In many but not all MirageOS packages, we've replaced `oasis` with `topkg`.  `topkg`, the "transitory OCaml software packager", is a lighter layer over the underlying `ocamlbuild`.  Using `topkg` has allowed us to remove several thousand lines of autogenerated code across the MirageOS package universe, and let our release manager automate a significant amount of the MirageOS 3 release process.  We hope to continue benefitting from the ease of using `topkg` and `topkg-care`.

Not all packages have moved to `topkg` -- if you see one that isn't, feel free to submit a PR!

We'd like to thank particularly, but in no particular order, the following people who contributed to this improvement by writing or improving `topkg`, converting existing packages, or using `topkg` in new packages which were automatically releasable: Daniel B端nzli, Hannes Mehnert, Federico Gimenez, David Kaloper, Jochen Bartl, Thomas Gazagnaire, Leonid Rozenberg, Anil Madhavapeddy, Mindy Preston, and Dave Scott.

### Many, Many Other Changes

There's more in MirageOS 3 than we can fit in one blog post without our eyes glazing over.  The release notes for `mirage` version 3.0.0 are a nice summary, but you might also be interested in the full accounting of chanes for every package released as a part of the MirageOS 3 effort.  The following list was automatically generated by collecting the changelogs from each repository included in the `mirageos-3-beta` opam remote:


## mirage-clock v1.1
### 1.2.0 (2016-12-21)

* import `V1.MCLOCK` and `V1.PCLOCK` from `mirage-types` under `mirage-clock`
  and `mirage-clock-lwt`

## ocaml-vchan v2.3.0
2.3.0 (unreleased)
* add archlinux dependencies
* build against mirageos version 3, and drop support for earlier versions

## charrua-core v0.4
## ?? (??)

* use topkg for building

## arp 0.2.0
## 0.2.0 (2017-01-17)

* MirageOS3 support
* Don't ship with -warn-error +A, use it only in `./build`
* Fix testsuite compilation on OCaml 4.02
* Renamed `Marp` to `Arpv4` (same as MirageOS ARP handler in tcpip)

## logs-syslog 0.1.0
## 0.1.0 (2017-01-18)

- remove <4.03 compatibility
- Mirage: use STACK instead of UDP/TCP
- MirageOS3 support

## mirage-vnetif v0.3
0.3 (unreleased)
----
- Use topkg
- Use new mirage-time and mirage-clock modules
- Adapt to MirageOS version 3 errors scheme

## functoria 2.0.0
## 2.0.0 (unreleased)

* invoke ocamlbuild with quiet (#93 by @hannesm)
* restrict -f command line argument to items in current working directory (#91 by @hannesm)
* ocamlify opam filename (#89 by @yomimono)
* persist configuration arguments (#85, #87 by @hannesm, @Drup)
* remove Functoria_misc.Log (#84 by @hannesm)
* remove Functoria_misc.Cmd (#84 by @hannesm)
* separate configure from build step, both are now done on the graph.  opam file is now generated during configure (#76, #84 by @hannesm)
* check presence of vertex before removing (#83 by #Drup)
* split into functoria and functoria-runtime opam packages (#80 by @hannesm)
* use Astring instead of custom Functoria_misc.String (#77 by @hannesm)
* expose Functoria_key.name, and use it to generate a list of runtime keys (#68 by @yomimono)
* remove Functoria_misc.Set (provided `of_list`), now depend on 4.03+ (#75 by @hannesm)
* signature of `connect` changed: value is now `'a io`, no result (fail hard instead!) (#71 by @hannesm)
* remove base_context (#65 by @yomimono)
* Switch to topkg (#64 by @samoht)

## mirage-block v0.2
## 1.0.0 (2016-12-21)

- Import `V1.BLOCK` from `mirage-types` into `Mirage_block.S` (@samoht)
- Import `V1_LWT.BLOCK` from `mirage-types-lwt` into `Mirage_bloc_lwt.S` (@samoht)

## mirage-block-ramdisk v0.3

## mirage-block-solo5 v0.2.1
## v0.2.1 (2017-01-17)

* Declare dependency on result and fmt in opam (@hannesm, #8)

## mirage-block-unix v2.6.0
2.6.0 (2017-02-13)
* allow fsync to be used in preference to fcntl for flushing on macOS

2.5.0 (2017-01-17)
* use MirageOS 3 error scheme & new dependencies; drop support for earlier versions

## mirage-block-xen v1.5.0
1.5.0 (unreleased)
* Build with MirageOS 3, and don't build against earlier versions
* support and test compiler versions 4.03 and 4.04
* remove unused `id` type

## mirage-bootvar-solo5 v0.2.0
## v0.2.0 (2017-01-17)

* Port to topkg (@hannesm, #6)
* Use common parse-argv library (@yomimono, #4)

## mirage-bootvar-xen v0.3.2
0.4.0 (unreleased)
----

* Remove examples directory, as the module is now directly used by the mirage front-end tool.
* Add an optional `filter` parameter to `argv`, allowing users to only pass those arguments which cmdliner might expect to see.
* Convert to topkg.
* Change name to mirage-bootvar-xen from mirage-bootvar.
* Move argv parsing to external library `parse_argv` and depend on that library.
* Build against MirageOS version 3, and drop support for earlier MirageOS versions.

## mirage-channel v3.0.0
v3.0.0
------

Adapt to MirageOS 3 CHANNEL interface:

- use `result` instead of exceptions
- hide `read_until` as an internal implementation
- remove `read_stream` from external interface as it is
  difficult to combine Lwt_stream and error handling.

## mirage-console v2.1.3
### 2.2.0 (2016-12-21)

* Import `V1.CONSOLE` from `mirage-types` into `Mirage_console.S` and create
  a new `mirage-console` opam package (@samoht)
- Import `V1_LWT.CONSOLE` from `mirage-types-lwt` into `Mirage_console_lwt.S`
  and create a new `mirage-console-lwt` opam package (@samoht)

## mirage-console-solo5 v0.2.0
## v0.2.0 (2017-01-17)

* Port to topkg (@hannesm, #4)
* Update types and interface for MirageOS 3 (@hannesm, @yomimono, @samoht)

## mirage-device 1.0.0
### 1.0.0 (2016-12-20)

- Initial version, code imported from https://github.com/mirage/mirage

## mirage-entropy v0.2.0
# 0.4.0 (???)

* Compatibility with MirageOS 3 module types.
* Add a benchmark.
* Obsolete `mirage-entropy-<BACKEND>`; the repository now contains only `mirage-entropy`.
* Support Unix, Xen, and Solo5 backends.
* Prune `oasis`.
* Move `noalloc` to 4.03-style annotations

## mirage-flow v1.1.0
### 1.2.0 (2016-12-21)

* Import `V1.FLOW` from `mirage-types` into `Mirage_flow.S` (@samoht)
* Import `V1_LWT.FLOW` from `mirage-types-lwt` into `Mirage_flow_lwt.S` (@samoht)
* Rename the existing `Mirage_flow` into `Mirage_flow_lwt` (@samoht)
* Rename `Lwt_io_flow` into `Mirage_flow_unix` (@samoht)

## mirage-fs v0.6.0
### 1.0.0 (2016-12-27)

* Import the V1.FS and V1_LWT.FS for mirage-types

## mirage-fs-unix v1.2.1
1.3.0
----

* Port to MirageOS 3 interfaces.
* Improve Travis CI distribution coverage for tests.

## mirage v3.0.0
### 3.0.0 (2017-soon!)

* rename module types modules: V1 -> Mirage_types, V1_LWT -> Mirage_types_lwt (#766, by @yomimono, @samoht, and @hannesm)
* split type signatures and error printers into separate libraries (#755, #753, #752, #751, #764, and several others, by @samoht and @yomimono)
* use mirage-fs instead of ocaml-fat to transform FS into KV_RO (#756, by @samoht)
* changes to simplify choosing an alternate ARP implementation (#750, by @hannesm)
* add configurators for syslog reporter (#749, by @hannesm)
* filter incoming boot-time arguments for all Xen backends, not just QubesOS (#746, by @yomimono)
* give mirage-types-lwt its own library, instead of a mirage-types sublibrary called lwt (#735, by @hannesm)
* remove `format` function and `Format_unknown` error from FS module type (#733, by @djs55)
* ocamlify FAT name (#723 by @yomimono)
* remove type `error` from DEVICE module type (#728, by @hannesm)
* UDP requires random for source port randomization (#726 by @hannesm)
* drop "mir-" prefix from generated binaries (#725 by @hannesm)
* BLOCK and FS uses result types (#705 by @yomimono)
* depext fixes (#718 by @mato)
* workflow changes: separate configure, depend, build phases, generate opam file during configure (#703, #711 by @hannesm)
* tap0 is now default_network (#715, #719 by @yomimono, @mato)
* ARP uses result types (#711 by @yomimono)
* ipv4 key (instead of separate ip and netmask) (#707, #709 by @yomimono)
* CHANNEL uses result types (#702 by @avsm)
* no custom myocamlbuild.ml, was needed for OCaml 4.00 (#693 by @hannesm)
* revert custom ld via pkg-config (#692 by @hannesm)
* result types for FLOW and other network components (#690 by @yomimono)
* removed `is_xen` key (#682, by @hannesm)
* mirage-clock-xen is now mirage-clock-freestanding (#684, by @mato)
* mirage-runtime is a separate opam package providing common functionality (#681, #615 by @hannesm)
* add `qubes` target for making Xen unikernels which boot & configure themselves correctly on QubesOS. (#553, by @yomimono)
* revised V1.CONSOLE interface: removed log, renamed log_s to log (#667, by @hannesm)
* remove Str module from OCaml runtime (#663, in ocaml-freestanding and mirage-xen-ocaml, by @hannesm)
* new configuration time keyword: prng to select the default prng (#611, by @hannesm)
* fail early if tracing is attempted with Solo5 (#657, by @yomimono)
* refactor ipv4, stackv4, and dhcp handling (#643, by @yomimono)
* create xen-related helper files only when the target is xen (#639, by @hannesm)
* improvements to nocrypto handling (#636, by @pqwy)
* disable warning #42 in generated code for unikernels (#633, by @hannesm)
* V1.NETWORK functions return a Result.t rather than polyvars indicating success or errors (#615, by @hannesm)
* remove GNUisms and unnecessary artifacts from build (#623, #627, by @mato and @hannesm)
* remove type `id` from `DEVICE` module type. (#612, by @yomimono and @talex5)
* revise the RANDOM signature to provide n random bytes; provide nocrypto_random and stdlib_random (#551 and #610, by @hannesm)
* expose `direct` as an option for `kv_ro`.  (#607, by @mor1)
* require a `mem` function in KV_RO, and add `Failure` error variant (#606, by @yomimono)
* `connect` functions are no longer expected to return polyvars, but rather to raise exceptions if `connect` fails and return the value directly. (#602, by @hannesm)
* new documentation using `odig` (#591, #593, #594, #597, #598, #599, #600, and more, by @avsm)
* change build system to `topkg` from `oasis`. (#558, #590, #654, #673, by @avsm, @samoht, @hannesm, @dbuenzli)
* express io-page dependency of crunch. (#585, by @yomimono and @mato)
* deprecate the CLOCK module type in favor of PCLOCK (POSIX clock) and
  MCLOCK (a monotonically increasing counter of elapsed nanoseconds).
  (#548 and #579, by @mattgray and @yomimono)
* emit an ocamlfind predicate that matches the target, reducing the
  amount of duplication by target required of library authors
  (#568, by @pqwy)
* implement an `is_unix` key (#575, by @mato)
* use an int64 representing nanoseconds as the argument for `TIME.sleep`,
  instead of a float representing seconds. (#547, by @hannesm)
* expose new targets `virtio` and `ukvm` via the `solo5` project. (#565,
  by @djwillia, @mato, and @hannesm).
* remove users of `base_context`, which includes command-line arguments `--unix`
  and `--xen`, and `config.ml` functions `add_to_ocamlfind_libraries` and
  `add_to_opam_packages`.  As a side effect, fix a long-standing error message
  bug when invoking `mirage` against a `config.ml` that does not build.
  (#560, by @yomimono)
* link `libgcc.a` only on ARM & other build improvements (#544, by @hannesm)
* allow users to use `crunch` on unix with `kv_ro`; clean up crunch .mlis on
  clean (#556, by @yomimono)
* remove console arguments to network functors (#554, by @talex5 and @yomimono)
* standardize ip source and destination argument names as `src` and `dst`, and
  source and destination ports as `src_port` and `dst_port` (#546, by @yomimono)
* a large number of documentation improvements (#549, by @djs55)
* require `pseudoheader` function for IP module types. (#541, by @yomimono)
* always build with `ocamlbuild -r`, to avoid repetitive failure message
  (#537, by @talex5)

## mirage-http v2.5.2
### 3.0.0 

* Port to MirageOS 3 CHANNEL interface.
* Use Travis Docker for more multidistro testing.

## mirage-kv 1.0.0
### 1.0.0 (2016-12-27)

First release, import V1.KV_RO and V1_LWT.KV_RO from mirage-types

## mirage-logs v0.2
### 0.3.0 (unreleased)

- Build against MirageOS 3, and drop support for earlier versions.
- Port to topkg.

## mirage-net 1.0.0
### 1.0.0 (2016-12-26)

- Add Stats module from mirage-net-xen for common use
- Initial version, code imported from https://github.com/mirage/mirage

## mirage-net-macosx v1.1.0
### 1.3.0 (unreleased)

- Adapt to MirageOS 3 types.
- Bugfixes for `listen`: be tail-recursive (#19, by @samoht), don't restart when canceled (#17, by @yomimono)

## mirage-net-solo5 v0.2.0

## mirage-net-unix v2.2.3
2.3.0 (unreleased):
----

* Support MirageOS 3; drop support for earlier versions
* `listen` no longer restarts itself when canceled (#36, from @yomimono)
* Remove misleading error message referencing OSX (#31, from @hannesm)
* Use topkg instead of OASIS
* `writev` no longer fails when called with a list of total length > 1 page (#26, by @yomimono)
* `disconnect` no longer causes a crash on invocation (#26, by @yomimono)

## mirage-net-xen v1.7.0
1.7.0 (unreleased):

* Build against MirageOS version 3, and drop support for previous versions.

* Log exceptions from the `listen` callback.

* Use Cstruct.hexdump_pp to dump frames on error.

* Use the Logs library for logging.

* Use a monotonic counter for the RX id.

## mirage-platform v3.0.0
3.0.0 (unreleased)
* [xen-ocaml] Add support for OCaml 4.04.0 (#173, by @yomimono)
* don't embed Str into the ocaml runtime (#175, by @hannesm)
* sleep in nanoseconds, not seconds (#168, by @hannesm)
* avoid memsetting NULL (#179, by @rixed)
* use mirage-clock-freestanding instead of mirage-clock-xen (#177, by @hannesm)
* use logs for errors (#171, by @hannesm)
* [xen-ocaml] for compiler version 4.04, set OCAML_OS_TYPE to "xen" (#178, by @yomimono)

## mirage-protocols 1.0.0
### 1.0.0 (2016-12-29)

import ETHIF, ARP, IP, IPV4, IPV6, TCP, UDP, ICMP module types from mirage-types and mirage-types-lwt

## mirage-random 1.0.0
### 1.0.0 (2016-12-20)

- Initial version, code imported from https://github.com/mirage/mirage

## mirage-solo5 v0.2.0

## mirage-stack 1.0.0
### 1.0.0 (2016-12-29)

import V4 module type from mirage-types and mirage-types-lwt, where it was STACKV4

## mirage-tcpip v3.0.0
### 3.0.0 (2017-soon!)

* adapt to MirageOS 3 API changes (*many* PRs, from @hannesm, @samoht, and @yomimono):
  - replace error polyvars in many functions with result types
  - define and use error types
  - `connect` in various modules now returns the device directly or raises an exception
  - refer to mirage-protocols and mirage-stacks, rather than mirage-types
* if no UDP source port is given to UDP.write, choose a random one (#272, by @hannesm)
* remove Ipv4.Routing.No\_route\_to\_destination\_address exception; treat routing failures as normal packet loss in TCP (#269, by @yomimono)
* Ipv6.connect takes a list of IPs (#268, by @yomimono)
* remove exception "Refused" in TCP (#267, by @yomimono)
* remove DHCP module. Users may be interested in the replacement charrua-core (#260, by @yomimono)
* move Ipv4 to Static\_ipv4, which can be used by other IPv4 modules with their own configuration logic (#260, by @yomimono)
* remove `mode` from STACKV4 record and configuration; Ipv4.connect now requires address parameters and the module exposes no methods for modifying them. (#260, by @yomimono)
* remove unused `id` types no longer required by mirage-types (#255, by @yomimono)
* overhaul how `random` is used and handled (#254 and others, by @hannesm)
* fix redundant `memset` that zeroed out options in Tcp\_packet.Marshal.into\_cstruct (#250, by @balrajsingh)
* add vnetif backend for triggering fast retransmit in iperf tests (#248, by @magnuss)
* fixes for incorrect timer values (#247, by @balrajsingh)
* add vnetif backend that drops packets with no payload (#246, by @magnuss)
* fix a race when closing test pcap files (#246, by @magnuss)

## mirage-time 1.0.0
### 1.0.0 (2016-12-20)

- Initial version, code imported from https://github.com/mirage/mirage

## ocaml-conduit v0.15.0
0.15.0
* support MirageOS 3, and drop support for earlier versions (#203, #202)

## ocaml-crunch v1.4.1
## 2.0.0

* Fix reading of files consisting of multiple pages (#30 by @hannesm)
* Port to MirageOS3 API: removed unused `id` type (#17), add Failure
  error type (#20), `connect` does not return a result anymore.
* Generate a `mem` function for the filesystem (#18)
* Port to topkg and respect the odig packaging convention (#24 via @fgimenez)
* Add `LICENSE` file to repository (#19 via @djs55)

## ocaml-dns v0.19.0
## 0.19.1 (2017-02-09)

0.19.0 (unreleased):
* Port to MirageOS 3 module types.
* Remove runtime dependency on PPX from META file
* Bugfixes and improvements for async backend compilation (#100 by vbmithr)

## ocaml-fat v0.10.3
### 0.12.0 (unreleased):

* Build against MirageOS 3 and drop support for previous versions.
* Use alcotest instead of ounit.
* Remove Fat_memoryIO and Fat.MemFS (if needed, use Mirage_block_lwt.Mem).
* Remove the IO_PAGE functor parameter.
* Remove Fat_KV_RO, which is now in mirage-fs.
* Use topkg instead of OASIS.

## ocaml-freestanding v0.2.1
## v0.2.1 (2017-01-18)

* Declare `OCAML_OS_TYPE` as `freestanding` (@hannesm, #14)

## v0.2.0 (2017-01-18)

* FreeBSD support (@mato, @hannesm)
* OpenLibm supplied as a git subtree (@mato, #11)
* Support OCaml 4.04.0 (@mato, #8)

## ocaml-qcow v0.8.1

0.8.1 (2017-02-13)
- fix error in META file

0.8.0 (2017-02-13)
- update to Mirage 3 APIs
- now requires OCaml 4.03+
- ensure the interval tree is kept balanced


## ocaml-nocrypto v0.5.4
## v0.5.4 2017-01-31:
* Relicense from BSD2 to ISC.
* Support MirageOS 3.0.
* Replace OASIS with topkg.
* Stricter base64 decoding.

## ocaml-tls 0.8.0
## 0.8.0 (2017-02-01)

* lwt: in Unix.client_of_fd the named argument host is now optional (#336)
* mirage: in client_of_flow the (positional) hostname argument is now optional (#336)
* mirage: adapt to PCLOCK interface (@mattgray #329 #331)
* build system migrated from oasis to topkg (#342)
* mirage: adapt to MirageOS3 (@yomimono @samoht #338 #349 #350 #351 #353)
* lwt: do not crash on double close (@vbmithr #345)
* fixed docstring typos (@mor1 #340)

## mirage-os-shim v3.0.0
## v3.0.0 2017-01-30

Adapt to MirageOS 3.0.

## ocb-stubblr v0.1.1
## v0.1.1 2017-01-30

* Include both `lib` and `share` in pkg-config path.
* Use `mirage-xen-ocaml` for Xen pkg-config.
* Add include dirs to `cmxs` linking.

## solo5 v0.2.0
## 0.2.0 (2017-01-26)

This release is targeted for use with MirageOS 3.0.

High-level user-visible changes in this release:

* Support for building the `virtio` backend on FreeBSD.
* The `virtio` drivers are now stable and tested on QEMU/KVM, FreeBSD/bhyve and
  Google Compute Engine.
* A new option (`--net-mac`) for specifying a user-defined MAC address to `ukvm`.
* A new script [solo5-mkimage.sh](tools/mkimage/solo5-mkimage.sh) for building
  MBR-partitioned disk images with a bootloader and Solo5 (`virtio` backed)
  unikernel, with integrated support for building images for Google Compute
  Engine.
* A new script [solo5-run-virtio](tools/run/solo5-run-virtio.sh) for launching
  Solo5 (`virtio` backed) unikernels on QEMU/KVM and FreeBSD/bhyve.
* Improvements to the standalone test programs under `tests/`, including an
  automated test suite.
* Standardised license headers and copyright notices across the codebase and
  introduced an AUTHORS file listing contributors and their affiliations.

## mirage-qubes v0.3
### 0.4 (unreleased)

- Include an ipv4 sublibrary for automatically configuring ipv4 settings from qubesdb.

- Use and provide interfaces compatible with MirageOS version 3.0.0.

## charrua-client 0.1.0
0.1.0
-----

- Initial release, supporting lease acquisition and the `mirage` sublibrary for use with MirageOS version 3.
