18th March 2014: Crypto, GSoC and a Mirage tutorial day.

### Agenda

* SSL + crypto
* GSoC / OPW
* Mirage tutorial day

Attendees: Amir Chaudhry, Jonathan Ludlam,
Anil Madhavapeddy, Richard Mortier, David Scott


### Notes

#### TLS/SSL/crypto ####

Anil managed to get the SSL stack working and wondered if anyone else has
been tried it. Has played around in Unix but not tried anything with Xen yet.
Seems there's still some work to to do as it's missing the ability to
synthesise a flow interface but don't have a first-class interface for this
yet.  Could take existing type and use that, which everyone thinks is the
best we got for now. Dependencies for TLS are ASN1 and TLS (pure ocaml) and
ocaml-nocrypto (has some C). Still waiting for ctypes stub-generation to be
released before we can do a big change. Should have more pairs of eyes
looking over this code.  If anyone can mess around with this and provide
feedback, it would be be appreciated. 

Edit: Code is available at
[https://github.com/mirleft/ocaml-tls](https://github.com/mirleft/ocaml-tls)

#### Google Summer of Code / Outreach Program for Women ####

*GSoC* - Student applications close on the 21st (3 days from now).  After
this, the mentoring organisations need to review and rank student proposals.
Mort has spoken to many students about GSoC from undergrads to Masters and
encouraged them to apply. Others have been in touch on the mailing list.
Anil will check the system to see how applications have been going. In
general, everyone should be encouraging applications.

*OPW* - Xen has one slot for an [OPW][] project and has had couple of good
applicants, with some interest in Cloud API.  Mirage is also open to these
applicants as one of the [reviewed list of projects][opw-proj].

[OPW]: https://gnome.org/opw/
[opw-proj]: http://wiki.xenproject.org/wiki/OutreachProgramForWomen/Round8#Community_Reviewed_Project_List

#### Mirage tutorial day ####

Considerations for the tutorial day:

- Audience?
- Full day vs half-day?
- Break-down of sessions?
- Location?
- Proposed date?

**Audience** - In general we want this to be accessible to a relatively wide
audience of programmers (i.e experience of OCaml is not assumed - but
programming experience is).  There are a number of people in the Lab who
would be interested and also from Citrix as well as others once a date is
announced (would be good to have Xen platform team involved).  Would
probably need to restrict numbers to around 30 to ensure we can give each
person individual attention. Should capture details of all people interested
so that if we run this again, we have a self-selected list of people to
reach out to.

**Full/Half day** - This should be a full day to make sure that we can cover
enough of the details and take a hands-on approach to the sessions, rather
than lecture-style.

**Sessions** - Will need to spend time on structuring this. Would be good if
each session had a tangible goal to reach (e.g get something running up on
Rackspace). Should cover networking, storage and a bunch of basic items.
Making reusable sessions would be extremely useful as they can become the
basis of more formal modules and expanded with more stuff about Xen or the
cloud. These could even become a nice undergraduate systems module with
Mirage as the basis.  Specific breakdown might be to have the first part of
the day be about OCaml basics (e.g Ch1-Ch7 of [RWO][]), and then dive down
into Mirage and Xen.  There are already elements that could be reused from
much earlier tutorials (Japan?) but would need dusting off for the
(wonderful) new world of OPAM et al.

**Location** - Will do first tutorial in Cambridge and could either do this
in the Lab or perhaps at Citrix.  Amir will contact Lars to see if Citrix is
a viable option.

**Date** - From a brief poll it seems that sometime during the week of 19
May is a good one but this is *not* confirmed so we still need to pin down
the exact date. Should keep whatever date we select within the school
term-time (for obvious reasons).

[RWO]: https://realworldocaml.org


#### Other ####

Irminsule is being used by Dominic in Nottingham and it does stuff related
to maildir. Mort has put Dominic in touch with Gregory (who's working on
IMAP).  Exciting stuff!
