28th Oct 2014: Docker tests, mirage-dev, tracing and onboarding newcomers

### Agenda ###

* Review notes from last time
* `is-mirage-broken` and Docker
* `mirage-dev` releases
* Tracing
* `mirage-tc` release
* (good?) use of custom configure and make scripts
* Mirage task list for newcomers

Attendees: Amir Chaudhry, Thomas Gazagnaire, Thomas Leonard,
Anil Madhavapeddy, Hannes Mehnert, Mindy Preston, Dave Scott,
Magnus Skjegstad and Nik Sultana


### Notes ###

#### is-mirage-broken and Docker ####

Nik Sultana working on a new tool aims to make builds of Mirage applications
on various operating systems, using the Docker images (see the
[repo][mir-broken-repo]). This is a continuation of looking at Bash scripts.
It just runs a cron job everyday and lets us know if we've broken any
interfaces. Currently trying to make it colourful or use images (suggestions
welcome!).

At the moment we only have two repos being tested this way so it would be good
if people added their own.  For example, the TLS stack would be useful —
Hannes can do this (and may also add the XMPP stuff).

The logs are in a [README file][logs] and you can see (at time of the call)
that mirage-skeleton and mirage-www both build on Ubunty Trusty (with OCaml
4.01.0) but not the others, as yet. 

The aim is to merge the output to `mirage-www` at some point but we should
also close the loop somehow by notifying people (maybe send emails).
This is sort of like TravisCI but instead the builds happen on a fixed
schedule (via cron), rather than on each pull request.  This helps to surface a
different set of issues. Should look at how to close the loop over the next
few weeks (perhaps getting emails working first).

[mir-broken-repo]: https://github.com/mirage/is-mirage-broken/
[logs]: https://github.com/mirage/is-mirage-broken/blob/master/logs/README.md

#### mirage-dev releases ####

Dave was going do these releases but found more bugs, which got in the way. On
the positive side, `mirage-dev` is getting better and better and now the TLS
work is added too. 

Packaging metadata is the most awkward stuff which affects the build.
Thomas is adding OPAM files to the projects he's making and using the pin and
publish workflow, which is an improvement (NB: OPAM 1.2 is released now, which
makes this available to everyone).

We should switch all things over to OPAM 1.2 workflows but should take note of
any blog posts/docs that need to be updated (brief segue into blog aggregation
— see AOB).


#### Tracing ####

ThomasL wrote a [blog post about Mirage tracing][blog-post]. Everyone was in
awe. When the work is finished, we should have a post on the Mirage website. 

Some questions about when people can start using it. Would be great to get
more feedback from others trying it out. At the moment it requires lots of
pins and there was a thought about adding it to `mirage-dev` but we really
should flush the queue of releases before adding more things. 

If anyone wants to use it to explore the TCP stack, that would be very useful 
ThomasL already looked at UDP). Maybe Nik can think about this, for example
looking at the behaviour of our stack during ping flood (currently we crash!).
In general, looking at the network stack is a good way forward.

Mindy will try out the tracing if she can reproduce the memory leaks she's had
on her unikernel blog (it does reboot fine). It's not clear if that issue is
related to the network stack or the K/V store (crunch). In any case, Mindy
will write up what she finds (and we should be surprised if it turns out that
crunch does *not* have problems). In addition, it'll be interesting to see
what issues crop up if traces last more than a few seconds. Let's see what
happens. 

[blog-post]: http://roscidus.com/blog/blog/2014/10/27/visualising-an-asynchronous-monad/


#### mirage-tc release ####

ThomasG has pulled out `mirage-tc` from Irmin.  Mirage Type-classes is a set
of functors and combinators to pretty-print (using sexplib), to convert to and
from and JSON and Cstruct buffers. There are some examples in the Readme on
the [mirage-tc repo][mirage-tc].

It's already released in OPAM and could imagine it being useful for the TLS
stuff (but that may introduce a dependency on `mirage-tc`).
Feedback is welcome!

[mirage-tc]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-tc


#### custom configure and make scripts ####

ThomasG debugged a bunch of stuff and found that make and config scripts are
doing far too much magic. It would be good to have some consistent way to do
this ... perhaps something like a tool for consistently describing a project!
*(sidenote: For the uninitiated this was a reference to [Assemblage][], which
ThomasG and Daniel Bünzli have been working on but is not yet ready for
users)*. Unfortunately, this means dealing with build systems which is usually
complicated. 

In general, config is a substantive and unsolved problem. Lots of breakages
and issues because of optional dependencies (depopts). To try and help with
this this, we've been removing depopts and replacing with virtual packages.
These issues are cropping up just because the amount of code and number of
libraries is growing. We do need a more consistent DSL for this. 

There's a particular problem with `pkg-config` being a is bit broken on Mac
OSX but it's better to try and fix that than do anything else (already been
pushing fixes). Anil will fix GMP and pkg-config and notes that Yosemite 
latest release of OSX) has bridging support, which means not needing tuntap
modules any more. This is very handy. 

[Assemblage]: https://github.com/samoht/assemblage


#### Mirage tasks list for newcomers ####

Lots of people have been asking about 'junior jobs' — we really don't 
like this term so if you have a better one please do
[suggest it on the list][mir-mail]. 

This came up again in the OPW rounds and Mirage is now an even bigger (more
daunting?) project. There are actually lots of tasks like this available so
Anil will collate them and make them visible to others.  Suggestion of a wiki
page like the kind the [Compiler Hacking sessions][compiler-hacking] maintain
could be good([link][compiler-wiki]). This works very well for them, and they
have expertise and time ratings for each task, but it does take regular
maintenance.

Whether people are familiar with OCaml also makes a difference as there may be
multiple learning curves involved so a straight-forward rating system is
unlikely to work. Mindy mentioned that when she was looking at the project,
she picked an area that she knew something about (networking), which made it
easier to pick up what was going on.  

This led to the idea that we should split out the possible tasks/subprojects
by some kind of functional area so that newcomers can pick something they're
already familiar with e.g networking stack, file systems, hypervisor etc. This
seems like a sensible structure to present and neatly points people to
specific sets of libraries so they don't have to be overwhelmed with the
project as a whole. Anil will put something together along these lines. Mort
really wants to work on the training material over the next months so this
will be useful. Mindy also suggested adding things to [OpenHatch][], which is
one mechanism people search for FOSS projects to contribute to.

Amir raised the prospect of what we want from Mirage 3.0 and that we should
plan this with enough time. One interesting suggestion is having a fully
working Javascript backend. Will raise this next time to capture people's
thoughts. Of course, we do still need to get all the things for 2.0 finished
first, including the TLS stack and deciding on C library handling.

[compiler-hacking]: https://ocamllabs.github.io/compiler-hacking/
[compiler-wiki]: https://github.com/ocamllabs/compiler-hacking/wiki
[OpenHatch]: https://openhatch.org

-- 

#### AoB ####

- TLS on Xen: Trying to upstream things to zarith but could just patch in OPAM
repo instead? Separate package for things is sometimes better as it helps with
debugging.

- Thoughts on folding content into the openmirage.org site. Could run syndic
in unix and commit the results. Could run this on the same place as the cron
job. Amir to try a manual run of syndic with people's blogs posts, taking the
code from OCaml.org. 

- Next call is scheduled for **12th November** - Please refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel
