7th Aug 2014: 2.0 release review, Docs Day and ARM updates

### Agenda ###

* 2.0 release summary
  - Blog posts
  - ARM integration
* 0Install distribution
  - Wrapper for deploying Unikernels
* Mirage Docs day (sync w Xen Docs Day)
* Carried over
  - zeroing out cstruct/memory
  - duplicated code in mirage platform


Attendees: Amir Chaudhry (chair), Thomas Gazagnaire, Thomas Leonard,
Anil Madhavapeddy, Russell Pavlicek, Mindy Preston and Nick.


### Notes ###

#### 2.0 release summary ####

**Blog posts complete** - The run of blog posts went very well and found
their way onto social aggregators too.   You can find the the links to these
discussions and other news stories about Mirage (in many different
languages!) at [openmirage.org/links][mir-links].  There's an outstanding
issue to raise the visibility of this link log. Anil reports lots of
interest at OSCON ([5 star talk!][oscon-14]) and there was high-attendance
at the workshop in Sweden.

**2.0 release** - It's been a couple of weeks since the release and there's
been much more activity on the mailing list. Mirage is waiting on a bunch of
patches to be merged, adding a lot of support for ARM stuff. The upcoming
`mirage` 2.0 binary will mean that people can remove the pins from the
instructions.  

At OSCON, Mort gave Russ the tour who then said there's a nice story about
Docker. Would be good to get as much of this stuff up front so we can get
good story together. Anil noted that we do most of this by building this
stuff and seeing how things work. It's easier to quantitatively evaluate
things. 

[oscon-14]: http://www.oscon.com/oscon2014/public/schedule/detail/35024
[mir-links]: http://openmirage.org/links

**ARM Integration** - *Thomas L*: Held up by physical pages bug which
upstream are fixing. Has updated instructions to use a patched stuff.
All the PRs could probably be merged. Has released MiniOS 3 which has a
larger stack. This has an extra MB and will detect stack overflow.
Will be looking at performance next. 

Mindy offered to try things out on a BeagleBone but need to have an A20
processor so wouldn't work (it's an A9). We're planning to keep things
focused on Cubieboard and Cubietruck for now and both are quite popular.
Turns out that xen-arm-builder is the easiest way to get stuff on ARM.
If anyone can explain how the Linux configuration works, it would be very
useful to have any writeups about that. We have a bunch of new users who are
finding all it difficult to navigate many different pieces in order to get
up and running.

Question on power management came up a few times at OSCON and ThomasL will
have a look at this in due course.

#### 0Install distribution ####

Thomas L talked about a 0Install wrapper around Xen's xl for deploying
Unikernels. Previously demoed this in April in the Lab but was somewhat
hacky with a poor security story.  Would like to revisit this and is curious
how it would it be wrapped. XenServer takes over the whole host and is a bit
heavyweight. Libvirt might be an optin and should have OCaml bindings.
'Buzz heavyyear' on the mailing list might have useful input. Xapi might
also be useful to look at, so talking to Jon Ludlam too. 

Plan should be to start a thread on the Mirage List and try to get
information from others. 

#### Mirage Docs day ####

Russell Pavlicek (Xen Project Evangelist) joins us and encourages us to
organise a doc day and improve the various information available about
Mirage OS on the Xen Project site. Currently on Wiki.XenProject.org there
isn't much and we should really have answers for the basics, such as What is
Mirage?, What's in v2? and Why should I care?. Much of this content does
live elsewhere but representation on Xen Project is important. Items can
(and should) still link back to the Mirage OS site.

Anil and others note that we should take care not to give ourselves the
burden of maintaining duplicate content, especially if it's fast moving
(cf. tutorials). We should aim for a set of stand-alone content and link
appropriately.

Xen Project normally have docs days at the end of month and we are welcome
to join one of those or organise our own independently. Just let Russ know
so that he can add it to the event calendar. Currently thinking of
scheduling a Mirage Doc Day for end of September.

Also, worth sending Russ any PDFs of slides so that they can go up on Xen
Project. Slides there tend to get many views so it's a great way to get more
exposure. Anil notes that it would be better to embed them as we run our
slides as unikernels (dog-fooding all the way!).
  

#### Zeroing out memory/cstruct ####

David Kaloper as done a full review and submitted a PR. There might be a
performance hit but it's important due to `cstruct`'s use in TLS stack and
security-related code.


#### Code duplication in Mirage Platform ####

The new `mirage` allows us to move code into libs. The checksum PR will mean
we can then get rid of the duplicates in `mirage-platform`. In other words,
this is fixed, but not yet merged.


#### AoB ####

- Demonstrated **Irmin** but it needs applications/users. Need to make
sure Irmin links into Xen properly.  One use-case is the Mirage website.
Once we have Irmin logging, we can turn off Google Analytics. Avoids the
privacy leakage and will be interesting to see how this works in general.

- Lots of good things coming in **OCaml 4.02.0** release and we get a lot of
benefits for free. We should work on this once it's actually released, mostly
likely in late September.

- Next call is scheduled for **19th August** but Dave and Anil are due to be
at XenSummit. Amir would like avoid the confusion of the last two calls :)
