26th February 2014: homepages are here (almost!).

### Agenda

* Google Summer of Code
* Homepage progress, including:
 - tweaks and configs to static sites (best way forward)
 - status of punk (set up for kernels etc)
 - deployment of static sites to punk
 - tutorials/wiki pages

Attendees: Anil Madhavapeddy, David Scott, Amir Chaudhry, Richard Mortier,
Jonathan Ludlam, Julian Chesterfield

### Notes

#### Google Summer of Code

Can ask SSL guys to push students to GSoC.  Process is to sign up as mentors
and the students sign up and then students get picked off by mentors.  Being
a mentor doesn't commit you to having a student nor to putting one forward
so there's no downside.  Anil's never had a bad student so it's worth doing.
Mort and Jon will sign up as well.

#### Homepage progress

Covering:
- tweaks and configs to static sites (best way forward)
- status of punk (set up for kernels etc)
- deployment of static sites to punk
- tutorials/wiki pages

Anil released Mirage 1.1.1 (yay!). Punk is up and running with Xen.
Maintainer of Xen on Debian is responsible so switched from Ubuntu to Debian.
No-one has unikernels running there yet.

Mort will either get his site running on vagrant but might just get it up on
Punk instead when that's ready

Anil got DNS working.  Actually need two servers so will have one 'normal
one' as a backup as well as a unikernel one.  Mort points out physical
redundancy is necessary.  We also need zone file for everyone's unikernel.
Some discussion of how to deal with domains.  Conclusion: Phase 1 will be
single set of DNS servers for all people on Punk

Amir went through mirage-skeleton's static_website setup and got his site
working when configured as unix and was very happy.  Will file bug report
about `mirage run` failing.  Once site was running, he noticed issues with
URL structure as some links are broken (i.e. the links that don't end with
`/index.html`).  Mort helped Amir find the relevant code section to edit
(`dispatch.ml`) and Amir will check out the cowabloga example of list.filter
to get an idea what to change.

Amir's next plan is to get end-to-end thing working with Travis so that a
unikernel can be easily deployed to Punk on a commit.  Anil's scripts work
and push stuff to a www repo for deployment and Mort ways that these worked
for him.

Anil mentioned that we could deploy to Amazon but Mort thinks that's phase
3, related to the self-scaling architecture previously discussed. 

Amir will go through tutorials on current website and submit any info he'd
find useful as PRs to mirage-skeleton's readme.  

#### Other things

Some discussion of static IP vs DHCP, netbooting and passing in IP address.
Some digging around in code and docs to better understand this.  Dave
mentions cloudinit.  Julian will file bug for startinfo and Anil will look
at cloudinit.
