12th Nov 2014: TLS, IPv6, OCaml 4.02.1, Library requests and Xenstore

### Agenda ###

* Review previous notes
* mirage-dev releases (and future thereof)
* TLS integration into conduit
* IPv6 patchset
* Xenstore TNG
* 4.02 support
* mirage-vagrant-vms
* mirage-profile status
* Preliminary thoughts for 3.0

Attendees: Amir Chaudhry (chair), Thomas Gazagnaire, Thomas Leonard,
Jon Ludlam, Anil Madhavapeddy, Hannes Mehnert, Richard Mortier,
Nicolas Ojeda Bar, Mindy Preston, Dave Scott, Magnus Skjegstad and Nik Sultana


### Notes ###

#### Future of mirage-dev ####

Releases are done! Yay!

Have yet to update the website to remove the refs to `mirage-dev` in the
installation instructions. It would be great if someone could do this.


#### TLS integration into conduit ####

Not keen to fix `lwt-ssl` bindings. Would be keen to get people to use TLS
stack and it would be good to have environment variable to switch between
stacks. Perhaps import it in now but not as the default and later make it the
default. 

We should begin serving the site over https using the unix backend (Mirage
doesn't serve https yet). Actually, we should merge in the
[IPv6 stack][ipv6-patch] and then serve that.  For example we could start
doing this with one of our live deployments and then roll it out elsewhere e.g
start with blobs.openmirage.org 

Can continue the [thread on the conduit repo][conduit-lwt] and Hannes is
welcome to add more debugging etc to conduit. 

[conduit-lwt]: https://github.com/mirage/ocaml-conduit/pull/23

#### IPv6 patchset ####

Nicolas been working on this and it touches many different parts of Mirage.
There's an [RFC and discussion thread][ipv6-patch] for those who wish to keep
up.  

Nicolas is current modifying the V2 types of Mirage and Dave says we could use
both but have to pick one from within. It's not clear to people how we use V1
and V2.  V1 became stable with the Mirage 2.0.0 release so V2 is now the
development version. In other words, for stable users we want V1 to be used
and for developers we want to use the V2 interface.  This will need some
clarification to avoid confusion.

Want to fix networking in the next release and are thinking of getting rid of
the StackV4 interface entirely.

For now, Nicolas can sync V1 and V2 in Mirage and get a release and anything
modified is in V2, then we can set a flag for dev versions. It's worth noting
that in OPAM 1.2 we can select specific versions of packages with constraints
on the command line (e.g opam install mirage > 2.0.0).

[ipv6-patch]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage/pull/319

#### Xenstore TNG ####

*\[TNG &#8594; The Next Generation -- in case you were as confused
as I was. AC\]*

New version of Xenstore is coming that includes the work James Bielman did on
adding Mandatory Access Control (MAC).  Also want to improve the client
interface and version control using Irmin. Some of the changes will be
disruptive but we can take care over this. 

It would be useful to have a functor to xenstore (i.e an abstract way to
read/write, which we can use in conduit and Jitsu etc). In addition, the UI
needs improvement as using it feels like ping pong. 

#### 4.02.1 support ####

Mirage currently only works on 4.01.0 but the latest OCaml compiler version is
4.02.1, ([released in October][402-release]). There are a number of 
improvements we can benefit from so we should work on this.

Anil has already made a start on it but may want to hold off due to the number
of outstanding patch reviews. Supporting 4.02.1 means porting the OCaml
runtime out as a separate C-lib. This can then benefit from opam constraints
(i.e pull down the appropriate runtime based on the compiler). We've done this
well for miniOS and the ocaml-dev team would also be interested in this
approach.

This is probably about a week's worth of work and if anyone has time to look
at it, please do email the list. It would also be good to be benchmarking this
at some point. 

[402-release]: http://ocaml.org/releases/4.02.html

#### mirage-vagrant-vms ####

This has worked worked for Dave and Mort. The plan is to have it running for
testing and then also be able to add other IDEs etc. If anyone wants to look
at vagrant clouds and go from code to binaries, that would be quite useful. We
would have to host the binaries, which is fine as we do that currently. We
just need to provide a URL, description and some metadata and can point back
to blobs. Can advertise the vagrant thing at an upcoming conference
([operatingsystems.io][os-io]).  The repo is at
[mirage/mirage-vagrant-vms][mir-vagrant].

Jon uses the vagrant cloud a lot but has not looked at Mirage yet. Has boxes
of XenServer if anyone wants to try those. Also has scripts that automatically
update version numbers and can share this with Nik.

[os-io]: http://operatingsystems.io
[mir-vagrant]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-vagrant-vms

#### mirage-profile status ####

ThomasL sent a message to list with a [status update][tracing-status]. It's
now in `mirage-dev` but there is nothing depending on it. Will send PRs to
platform, TCPIP and so on.  Mindy is trying out some tracing at the moment.
Also looking at GC and there may be some stuff to upstream as it may be
helpful to know when GC starts and how long it lasts. At the moment just
checks with registered callback so doesn't change OCaml interface. 

[tracing-status]: http://lists.xenproject.org/archives/html/mirageos-devel/2014-11/msg00044.html


#### Preliminary thoughts for 3.0 ####

Amir is keen that we start getting ideas down for what Mirage 3.0 will look
like and start working our way towards it. Would prefer that we time things
well so that libs can be upstreamed to opam proper at the same time we
announce (i.e not have things in dev or that require pins). 

Thoughts include a working Javascript backend, can have things working with
iOS and Android at that point. Could consider this the 'multiscale release' as
we're setting ourselves up to be able to work with multiple backends. Amir
will bring up this agenda point every few calls to see where thoughts are.


-- 

#### AoB ####

- **Library request!** ThomasG and Anil have built `ez` versions of Daniel
Bunzli's libs, such as [ezxmlm][] and [ezjsonm][], which are less flexible but
provide more convenient functions. They'd like to have an `ezcmdliner`, which
takes notions of terms and does `unix.get-env`. It would let them replace
adhoc environment parsing in configuration and let them assemble an
environment.  One of the interpretations would be a dialog-based interface and
could do bash-shell completion. This way, `mirage configure` can drop you into
a UI to select the things you wanted. It should be a simple library and only a
couple of days work as it's just a front end to `cmdliner` itself. After some
discussion, it seems that Dave might have pieces of this so he'll dig it out
and have a look but others are very welcome to dive in.

- Change of call day: After some brief discussion, it seems that **Wednesday**
is actually better for most people so we'll switch the call day accordingly.
Same time, different day.

- With the above change of day in mind, the next call is scheduled for
**Wednesday, 10th December** - Please refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[ezxmlm]: http://opam.ocaml.org/packages/ezxmlm/ezxmlm.1.0.1/
[ezjsonm]: http://opam.ocaml.org/packages/ezjsonm/ezjsonm.0.3.0/
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel
