14th October 2015: Functoria, Irmin roadmap and upcoming blog posts

### Agenda ###

- Functoria
- Irmin roadmap
- Pioneer Projects
- Blog posts and videos

<!-- - OPAM cross-compilation discussion -->

Attendees:
Daniel Bunzli, Amir Chaudhry (chair), Justin Cormack, Thomas Gazagnaire,
David Kaloper, Thomas Leonard, Anil Madhavapeddy, Hannes, Menhert,
Richard Mortier, Mindy Preston, Dave Scott, Magnus Skjegstad and Jeremy Yallop


### Notes ###

#### Quality and Test ####

Anil is trying to do more automated builds around `mirage` and using
CISO to build on pushes.  Hopefully can retire 'is-mirage-broken' when this is
done.  Currently working on this and hooking up the contiainer builds but they
run out of disk space. Trying to use `dog` to catch the logs and trying to
have a branch per package and version. At the moment there are a few thousand
contains unsuccessfully pushing to `dog`. Can hopefully use Thomas' package. 

Some brief discussion about UI and a note that there should be something on
ThomasL's GitHub account. 


#### Functoria ####

*See release tracking in [mirage/mirage#447][]*

ThomasG is refactoring the code to make it easier to understand. Also trying
to read the `.mli` file(s) and explaining why it's not in `mirage` anymore
(takes some effort to do this). `mirage` has two stages — compile and
run — and the user/developer typically wants control of when things happen.
There is building the `mirage` tool (which is an app itself) and your final
application — you want to build using functors, so you want a DSL.

ThomasG has some nice `.mli` files and will ask for review, probably by the
end of the week. One part is also an extension of `cmdliner`. Maybe talking to
someone with more experience of meta programming would be useful.

Not sure of ETA of Functoria yet. Every time there is some refactoring we have
to check that things compile and also have to check generated code, which
takes time. 

[mirage/mirage#447]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage/issues/447

#### Irmin progress ####

We should make a release of Irmin soon. 

ThomasL has been making some changes, which may have broken code and things
are more git-like now. The API is a bit more verbose and bit more explicit.
If someone is making a back-end it should be a lot simpler and they can share
resources a lot more easily. There are enough useful things in `master` that
it's worth cutting a release. ThomasG likes how things are going, still
perhaps possible to make a few frequent use-cases a bit easier. No strong
opinions as to how though.

Regarding the refactoring work, chunking is now finished and encryption is
compiling but not passing tests/review. That component isn't ready for release
yet but if someone wants to look over it, that would be cool.
<!-- Maybe encrypt the logs using dog (for science!).  -->

Worth noting that `dog` might not work with new APIs.  The IMAP server that
Greg worked on might also need updating. ThomasL/ThomasG will follow up with
him separately.  There's also a new version of Jitsu coming soon.

<!-- functor that takes a functor and returns a functor... ? -->

Other pieces: 

- Xen: Patches are there but probably need fixing now. There's likely a branch
in `mirage-dev`.

- GC: Not much progress on this yet. Will need to change types as part of this
works and at the moment, we pass around IDs. Some discussion over how to do
this.

- Memory issues: Jeremy looked at the memory usage issues too. Found a number
of culprits and fixed them but the remaining ones lead to a trade off between
memory usage and execution time. For example, we can reduce memory usage by
70% but that increases execution time by 2x. Caching seems to be the culprit
and we'll have to look at this further.


#### Pioneer Projects ####

We have a candidate for Outreachy who is working with Hannes who submitted a
small patch (we note that this also survived a code review by Daniel Bünzli).
Mort has had one other enquiry.  The Outreachy process is ongoing.


#### Blog posts ####

We've been releasing things as usual but haven't had any blog posts for a
while. There are a few things that it would be worth writing up posts about.

- Summary of the recent talks that have taken place (Amir has a draft). Any
videos can be added to the [Videos][] page of the website (which could do with
a refresh).

- Introduction to the new DHCP server, [Charrua][], which was a result of a
recent Pioneer Project. Christiano said he'd like to write one but the work is
not finished, yet. Might take another month to polish up. We should ask again
in a month.


[Videos]: https://mirage.io/wiki/talks
[Charrua]: https://github.com/haesbaert/charrua-core

<!-- #### OPAM cross-compilations ####
A headsup that this discussion has taken place on the opam-devel list and the
issue tracker. If you're interested, following along on those sources.
-->

--

#### AoB ####

- `nocrypto` work. Didn't get around to this but found out that it doesn't
compile with opam 1.1.1 (which is in Ubuntu) due to some variable in the OPAM
file. Must work with opam 1.2.0 or above.

- `codoc` status: We should check on this at the next meeting as it will be
needed for Irmin.

- Boot logos for MirageOS! Some discussion on the list about boot logos. Would
be good if we had a library to turn a string into ASCII art. We could make
this a Pioneer Project but after some discussion, it seems DavidK already has
such a library, [Notty][].

- Logging: Factoring things out into a library would be good. Getting `vchan`
integrated and working correctly (dom0/domU) is important and then we can have
a better way to manage logs. Should add this to the agenda for next time.

- The next call is scheduled for **Wednesday, 28th October**. Please add any
[agenda items][call-agenda] you wish to discuss in advance and refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[Notty]: https://github.com/pqwy/notty
[call-agenda]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Call-Agenda
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel
