11th Feb 2015: Improving quality, error handling, TLS merge and GSoC

### Agenda ###

- Improving Quality
- Error Handling RFC
- TLS merge progress
- OPAM 1.2 only
- GSoC Projects
- FOSDEM demo
- Bitcoin Piñata


Attendees: Amir Chaudhry, David Kaloper, Thomas Leonard, Jon Ludlam,
Anil Madhavapeddy Hannes Mehnert, Richard Mortier, Dave Scott Mindy Preston
and Nicolas Ojeda Bar


### Notes ###

#### Quality #### 

We need improve this in a more general and automated way. So far, we've done
quite well with local library testing but we don't really have the ability to
test things in coordinated way for unikernels.  Specifically, we don't really
have much end-to-end testing that looks at the complete toolchain. The only
place where this surfaces for us is still mirage-www (this website!), as bugs
tend to surface there whenever a wider issue occurs (cf. the recent crash on
boot - [mirage/mirage#375][]). Finding bugs in an automated way and reporting
them is important as the project grows.

Some options include providing a manifest of specific versions and running
tests that way.  It would allow us to take different libraries and bisect
issues.  We would have to build this our as we still have very few automated
tests e.g [is-mirage-broken][] (and it's not enough to just have tests — we
also have to fix things that they show as broken).

Another thought is that instead of merging directly into the upstream OPAM
repository (which is when we realise things aren't quite right), maybe we can
merge into a staging repo and ensure they pass a bunch of additional tests. 
Provided tests pass, then the libraries can be merged upstream en-masse — in a
known-working state. However, we must take care to balance things between
staging and releases — we don't want to end up with a large backlog of
'unreleased' software and then do infrequent 'big-bang' releases.  We need to
test and release upstream often and no-one should have to add the staging
remote just to use up to date software (that would merely shift the current 
problem from the main OPAM repo to our staging repo).

Related to the above, the ability to splice from an OPAM remote might be good 
currently have to take *everything* on a remote).  Perhaps ThomasG, Anil and
Louis Gesbert can discuss at this. At the moment, trying to add test cases
into libraries will make a big difference as an interim workflow.  For
example, Magnus has been patching TCP/IP to have some functional testing on
Travis and we could do this for other libraries too, e.g DNS, Cohttp, etc and
the approach would be useful elsewhere too.  Getting some kind of Xen testing
into [mirage-skeleton][] would also be great.

[mirage/mirage#375]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage/issues/357
[is-mirage-broken]: https://github.com/mirage/is-mirage-broken/blob/master/logs/README.md
[mirage-skeleton]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-skeleton

#### Error Handling RFC #### 

Thomas Leonard [began a discussion][err-mail] on Error handling in Mirage and
[submitted a page][err-pr] to the website as an RFC. Since then, he's tried to
documented what people advocating for polymorphic variants were describing but
it would be better if other people can read it and advocate for their opinion
(DavidK would take a look). There are also things from 4.02 that we migth want
to consider. In general, one of the themes that emerged from the discussions
so far is the difference of Error-handling 'in the large' and 'in the small'.

[err-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/archives/html/mirageos-devel/2015-01/msg00143.html
[err-pr]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/pull/274

#### OPAM 1.2 support only ####

The [patch to the mirage tool][drop-12] has been made but not merged yet.
ThomasG needs to get around to this and will do in due course.

[drop-12]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage/pull/353

#### TLS Merge progress #### 

We are almost there with this and there are number of patches that need to be
reviewed and merged ([mirage/mirage-dev#52][]). The largest blockers are the
blobs of C code and getting them to run on Mirage. The last mile still hasn't
been covered as the entropy story is not yet complete — we need to get
`xentropyd` out first. Currently it's not reliable enough as things start
hanging. Once that's out of the way we're looking good.  DavidK is working on
it.

[mirage/mirage-dev#52]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-dev/pull/52


#### GSoC Projects #### 

As part of Xen, we will be submitting projects as part of Google Summer of
Code (GSoC). We've been curating a set of [Pioneer Projects][pioneer] and we
can definitely add to this list. A quick call for ideas resulted in several
potential projects being proposed and these will be added to the projects page.
Very briefly, we discussed:

- A router VM, which can route traffic and be a DHCP server.
- A syslog unikernel
- A Firewall
- OCaml SSH

Please see the [Pioneer Projects page][pioneer] for more details.

[pioneer]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Pioneer-Projects

#### FOSDEM Demo #### 

Amir gave a demo at FOSDEM of a unikernel running on a Cubieboard2, that would
serve the 2048 game when people connected to its Wifi access point.  Mindy,
Magnus and DavidK helped to get the Wifi bridge working and the demo was quite
successful. There's a [blog post][demo] describing the event and the [repo][]
is available with instructions on what to do. Several people expressed an
interest in summer projects so they were directed to the Pioneer Projects page.

[demo]: http://amirchaudhry.com/unikernel-arm-demo-fosdem/
[repo]: https://github.com/amirmc/fosdemo

#### Bitcoin Piñata #### 

Yesterday, saw the release of the [Bitcoin Piñata][btc-pin], which is designed
to draw more attention to the OCaml TLS stack and unikernels. Amir wrote a
[background post][bg] to provide some context around it and both of these
appear to have spread very quickly over social media.  The challenge is to
break into a unikernel and recover the private key to a bitcoin address (and
then make off with the bitcoin) — Hence the name, Piñata.  If someone does
manage to take the coins, we should see the transaction in the [blockchain][].
Somewhat ironically, it seems that people have *added* some coins to the
address (albeit only a small amount). The Piñata is due to be up for about a
month, or until the coins are gone — the only reason for the time limit is due
to the maintenance burden of keeping the site up and dealing with issues (cf.
the site was subjected to a [SYN flood][syn-flood] the evening after it went
live.).

[btc-pin]: http://ownme.ipredator.se/
[bg]: http://amirchaudhry.com/bitcoin-pinata/
[blockchain]: https://blockchain.info/address/183XuXTTgnfYfKcHbJ4sZeF46a49Fnihdh
[syn-flood]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SYN_flood

-- 

#### AoB ####

- The next call is scheduled for **Wednesday, 25th February** - Please add any
[agenda items][call-agenda] you wish to discuss in advance and refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[call-agenda]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Call-Agenda
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel
