9th September 2015: Xen file generation, functoria and end-to-end systems

### Agenda ###

- Outstanding patches
  - xl generation
  - Functoria
- Docs for an end-to-end system 

Attendees:
Amir Chaudhry (chair), Thomas Gazagnaire, Thomas Leonard, Hannes Mehnert,
Richard Mortier, Gabriel Radanne and Dave Scott


### Notes ###


#### Outstanding patches ####

**xl files** — Last time, a patch was mentioned about better `.xl` files.
There was some discussion on the PR ([mirage/mirage#440][]), and this has now
been merged. There are still things to do as the deployment scripts will need
updating.  The plan is to update the skeleton file for the unikernel rather
than the generic one. Some discussion that it might be useful to think about a
more generic skeleton framework for deployment — like the one we ended up with
for TravisCI.  Dave will think about this but part of the process is to find
out where the abstractions should be made.  A separate comment was that the
logic for Xen file generation might be better placed in a standalone library 
related to the point below).

[mirage/mirage#440]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage/pull/440


**functoria** — See [mirage/mirage#441][]. The work on this is close to being
ready but unfortunately the above xl patch meant that a lot of messy work is
required before the functoria patch is ready to merge again (as it changes a
lot of things internally to the mirage tool).  Things are looking a lot tidier
already though. 

The goal is to integrate this fairly soon and the next release of the `mirage`
command line tool will incorporate it.  There are a three pull requests to
merge before this one and perhaps a fourth one too. Note that the whole engine
is in functoria so the mirage tool will have a new dependency. 

In terms of impact on users, it's largely the same as before. There may be
changes to how things work with TLS and there will be much better ways to do
certain things. It's not really a huge, breaking change as most existing
`config.ml` files will work (although a few will need tweaking). Should be
ready to look at for merge before the next call. Gabriel will work on some new
examples that will help explain the differences, as well as a blog post.
Should also add a note to the [breaking changes][brk-chg] page for anything
that does need updating (as well as emailing the list).

[mirage/mirage#441]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage/pull/441
[brk-chg]: https://mirage.io/wiki/breaking-changes

#### Describing an end-to-end system ####

We have a reasonably good toolchain that gets us from code push to deployable
unikernel but one of the less clear pieces is how to set up and deploy to a
Xen machine.  We do have the current deployment scripts Mort put together but
there's room for further simplification (Thomas also did some work to make
them more parameterised).  One way to think about this is to aim for a short
post (<1000 words) that describes the three stages of local build, CI and
deployment.  Keeping it this short means we need to have enough automated
infrastructure to point people at. As an example, we've already achieved this
with the Travis skeleton scripts.

Ultimately, we agree that deploying to EC2 is important but a good first step
would be to document (and to some extent, automate) our deployment on the
current Bytemark machines. Dave has been looking at these machines anyway and
it's a manual process to set things up appropriately.  It would be great to
improve what we have and there have been new RPMs for Xen released recently
that can help with this.  


-- 

#### AoB ####

- Release numbering. Related to the functoria patch, we should consider our
release numbering and how things are related to each other. For example, the
`mirage` tool has a version number (and we use `V1` in the APIs), functoria
will be versioned, and the major MirageOS announcements also use numbers.  

- Question about work on DHCP servers but folks aren't around to answer.

- The next call is scheduled for **Wednesday, 23rd September**,
but it looks like we may need to shift the date. Please add any
[agenda items][call-agenda] you wish to discuss in advance and refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[call-agenda]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Call-Agenda
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel
