17th Feb 2016: Containers, 2.7 prep, Hackathon and Netmap.

### Agenda ###

- Quality and Test
- Functoria status
- GSoC
- MirageOS Hackathon status
- Persistent storage on Xen (FAT/btree/...)
- Netmap

Attendees:
Amir, ThomasL, Mindy, Gemma, Hannes, tchell, Mort, Dave Scott, DanielB,
Anil, Jeremy, ThomasG.


### Notes ###

#### Quality and Test ####

- Anil has all containers pushed now and you can see them at
https://hub.docker.com/r/ocaml/opam/
- The [description](https://hub.docker.com/r/ocaml/opam/) there contains all
the info you need 
- We'll try and use Alpine as the 'base' as it's small. 
- Anil planning to write this up when he gets a chance. 
- These images should make it easier to run tests across many platforms etc
- Still needs support for Arch Linux etc.  
- There are things to check but we're doing well. 150 containers now.
- DanielB tried it and liked it as he used to test his things with Virtual Box.
Now just has to log in with command line and test things. 


#### Functoria status ####

- Jeremy is happy and has merged a few things into Functoria. No objections
from ThomasG.
- This will be a 2.7 release (not a 3.0).
- Functoria Blog post has a couple of TODO's — one of which was a come up with
a reasonable example. There's a PR in the mirage-www repo. Mindy will consider
that.

#### GSoC ####

- Mort will be one of the GSoC admins along with Lars. This is lightweight and
is mostly cover in case he's away.
- Application going in soon.
- Lars also wanted to check that our projects are up to date.

#### MirageOS hackathon ####

- Hannes has put up wiki pages. Not many people have added things to them.
- Support/sponsorship for students in place too.

### Persistent storage on Xen (FAT/btree/...) ###

- Have a lot of people asking about storage.
- Dave working on block backend for Irmin and will take a while to get this
done. Anyone else available to work on filesystems?
- Mort has a UG student working on a filesystem thing. It's working well
enough that there's a performance evaluation underway.
- Not written up yet but will encourage a release.
- Question on the mailing list where folks are using the FAT filesystem to
store things. It's a shame that Irmin doesn't work on Xen. 

#### Netmap ###

- We had a chat with Wassim from Erriscon for netmap backend instead of Xen
backend. We think this is something for xen-devel. Xen folks may have started
one but not sure where things stand. Maybe Wassim should use MiniOS for now. 
- No-one's used netmap. Maybe Wassim et al can use it and get back to us with
comments.
- There are pieces in several places. Anil will reply to the email.


--

#### AoB ####

- Quite a few people posting questions on stack overflow. The tag is `mirage`.
DanielB saw them but was waiting for others to respond. We may want to
consider a link on the mirage.io site to point people at stack overflow. That
means spending more time there ourselves, though.

- Late notes: Notes are still delayed — Amir has less time to write things up
properly. Dave recommends declaring a 'notes amnesty'. Focus on future notes
instead? Gemma offered to help. Amir will discuss with Gemma.

- The next call is scheduled for **2nd March**. Please add any
[agenda items][call-agenda] you wish to discuss in advance and refer to the
[mailing list][mir-mail] for actual details a day or so in advance.

[call-agenda]: https://github.com/mirage/mirage-www/wiki/Call-Agenda
[mir-mail]: http://lists.xenproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/mirageos-devel
